[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[ActiveMQ-ActiveMQComponent]]
ActiveMQ Component
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ActiveMQ component allows messages to be sent to a
http://java.sun.com/products/jms/[JMS] Queue or Topic or messages to be
consumed from a JMS Queue or Topic using
http://activemq.apache.org/[Apache ActiveMQ]. This component is based on
link:jms.html[JMS Component] and uses Spring's JMS support for
declarative transactions, using Spring's *`JmsTemplate`* for sending and
a *`MessageListenerContainer`* for consuming. All the options from the
link:jms.html[JMS] component also applies for this component.

To use this component make sure you have the *`activemq.jar`* or
*`activemq-core.jar`* on your classpath along with any Camel
dependencies such as *`camel-core.jar`*, *`camel-spring.jar`* and
*`camel-jms.jar`*.

Transacted and caching

See section _Transactions and Cache Levels_ below on link:jms.html[JMS]
page if you are using transactions with link:jms.html[JMS] as it can
impact performance.

[[ActiveMQ-URIformat]]
URI format
^^^^^^^^^^

activemq:[queue:|topic:]destinationName

Where *`destinationName`* is an ActiveMQ queue or topic name. By
default, the *`destinationName`* is interpreted as a queue name. For
example, to connect to the queue, *`FOO.BAR`*, use:

activemq:FOO.BAR

You can include the optional *`queue:`* prefix, if you prefer:

activemq:queue:FOO.BAR

To connect to a topic, you must include the *`topic:`* prefix. For
example, to connect to the topic, *`Stocks.Prices`*, use:

activemq:topic:Stocks.Prices

[[ActiveMQ-Options]]
Options
^^^^^^^

See Options on the link:jms.html[JMS] component as all these options
also apply for this component.

[[ActiveMQ-ConfiguringtheConnectionFactory]]
Configuring the Connection Factory
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This
http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/activemq/trunk/activemq-camel/src/test/java/org/apache/activemq/camel/component/ActiveMQRouteTest.java[test
case] shows how to add an *`ActiveMQComponent`* to the
link:camelcontext.html[CamelContext] using the
http://activemq.apache.org/maven/5.5.0/activemq-camel/apidocs/org/apache/activemq/camel/component/ActiveMQComponent.html#activeMQComponent%28java.lang.String%29[`activeMQComponent()`
method] while specifying the
http://activemq.apache.org/configuring-transports.html[brokerURL] used
to connect to ActiveMQ.

camelContext.addComponent("activemq",
activeMQComponent("vm://localhost?broker.persistent=false"));

[[ActiveMQ-ConfiguringtheConnectionFactoryusingSpringXML]]
Configuring the Connection Factory using Spring XML
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can configure the ActiveMQ broker URL on the *`ActiveMQComponent`*
as follows

xml<beans xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans"
xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans
http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans-2.0.xsd
http://camel.apache.org/schema/spring
http://camel.apache.org/schema/spring/camel-spring.xsd"> <camelContext
xmlns="http://camel.apache.org/schema/spring"> </camelContext> <bean
id="activemq"
class="org.apache.activemq.camel.component.ActiveMQComponent"> <property
name="brokerURL" value="tcp://somehost:61616"/> </bean> </beans>

[[ActiveMQ-UsingConnectionPooling]]
Using Connection Pooling
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When sending to an ActiveMQ broker using Camel it's recommended to use a
pooled connection factory to efficiently handle pooling of JMS
connections, sessions and producers. This is documented on the
http://activemq.apache.org/spring-support.html[ActiveMQ Spring Support]
page.

You can grab ActiveMQ's
*`org.apache.activemq.pool.PooledConnectionFactory`* with Maven:

xml<dependency> <groupId>org.apache.activemq</groupId>
<artifactId>activemq-pool</artifactId> <version>5.6.0</version>
</dependency>

And then setup the *`activemq`* Camel component as follows:

xml<bean id="jmsConnectionFactory"
class="org.apache.activemq.ActiveMQConnectionFactory"> <property
name="brokerURL" value="tcp://localhost:61616"/> </bean> <bean
id="pooledConnectionFactory"
class="org.apache.activemq.pool.PooledConnectionFactory"
init-method="start" destroy-method="stop"> <property
name="maxConnections" value="8"/> <property name="connectionFactory"
ref="jmsConnectionFactory"/> </bean> <bean id="jmsConfig"
class="org.apache.camel.component.jms.JmsConfiguration"> <property
name="connectionFactory" ref="pooledConnectionFactory"/> <property
name="concurrentConsumers" value="10"/> </bean> <bean id="activemq"
class="org.apache.activemq.camel.component.ActiveMQComponent"> <property
name="configuration" ref="jmsConfig"/> <!-- If transacted=true then
enable CACHE_CONSUMER (if not using XA) to run faster. See more details
at: http://camel.apache.org/jms --> <!--  <property name="transacted"
value="true"/> <property name="cacheLevelName" value="CACHE_CONSUMER"/>
--> </bean>

Notice the *`init`* and *`destroy`* methods on the pooled connection
factory. This is important to ensure the connection pool is properly
started and shutdown.

Important information about when using transactions

If you are using transactions then see more details at
link:jms.html[JMS]. And remember to set *`cacheLevelName`* to
*`CACHE_CONSUMER`* if you are not using XA transactions. This can
dramatically improve performance.

The *`PooledConnectionFactory`* will then create a connection pool with
up to 8 connections in use at the same time. Each connection can be
shared by many sessions. There is an option named *`maximumActive`* you
can use to configure the maximum number of sessions per connection; the
default value is *`500`*. From *ActiveMQ 5.7*: the option has been
renamed to better reflect its purpose, being named as
*`maximumActiveSessionPerConnection`*. Notice the
*`concurrentConsumers`* is set to a higher value than *`maxConnections`*
is. This is okay, as each consumer is using a session, and as a session
can share the same connection, we are in the safe. In this example we
can have *`8 * 500 = 4000`* active sessions at the same time.

[[ActiveMQ-InvokingMessageListenerPOJOsinaCamelroute]]
Invoking MessageListener POJOs in a Camel route
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ActiveMQ component also provides a helper
link:type-converter.html[Type Converter] from a JMS *`MessageListener`*
to a link:processor.html[Processor]. This means that the
link:bean.html[Bean] component is capable of invoking any
JMS *`MessageListener`* bean directly inside any route.

So for example you can create a *`MessageListener`* in JMS like this:

public class MyListener implements MessageListener \{ public void
onMessage(Message jmsMessage) \{ // ... } }

Then use it in your Camel route as follows

from("file://foo/bar") .bean(MyListener.class);

That is, you can reuse any of the Camel link:components.html[Components]
and easily integrate them into your JMS *`MessageListener`* POJO!

[[ActiveMQ-UsingActiveMQDestinationOptions]]
Using ActiveMQ Destination Options
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of ActiveMQ 5.6*

You can configure the
http://activemq.apache.org/destination-options.html[Destination Options]
in the endpoint URI, using the *`destination.`* prefix. For example to
mark a consumer as exclusive, and set its prefetch size to *`50`*, you
can do as follows:

 

<from
uri="activemq:foo?destination.consumer.exclusive=true&amp;destination.consumer.prefetchSize=50"/>

[[ActiveMQ-ConsumingAdvisoryMessages]]
Consuming Advisory Messages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

ActiveMQ can generate
http://activemq.apache.org/advisory-message.html[Advisory messages]
which are put in topics that you can consume. Such messages can help you
send alerts in case you detect slow consumers or to build statistics
(number of messages/produced per day, etc.) The following Spring DSL
example shows you how to read messages from a topic.

The below route starts by reading the topic
_ActiveMQ.Advisory.Connection_. To watch another topic, simply change
the name according to the name provided in ActiveMQ Advisory Messages
documentation. The parameter *`mapJmsMessage=false`* allows for
converting the *`org.apache.activemq.command.ActiveMqMessage`* object
from the JMS queue. Next, the body received is converted into a String
for the purposes of this example and a carriage return is added.
Finally, the string is added to a file

<route> <from
uri="activemq:topic:ActiveMQ.Advisory.Connection?mapJmsMessage=false"/>
<convertBodyTo type="java.lang.String"/> <transform>
<simple>$\{in.body}&#13;</simple> </transform> <to
uri="file://data/activemq/?fileExist=Append&amp;fileName=advisoryConnection-$\{date:now:yyyyMMdd}.txt"/>
</route>

If you consume a message on a queue, you should see the following files
under the *`data/activemq`* folder :

*`advisoryConnection-20100312.txt`* +
*`advisoryProducer-20100312.txt`*

containing the following string:

ActiveMQMessage \{ commandId = 0, responseRequired = false, messageId =
ID:dell-charles-3258-1268399815140-1:0:0:0:221, originalDestination =
null, originalTransactionId = null, producerId =
ID:dell-charles-3258-1268399815140-1:0:0:0, destination =
topic://ActiveMQ.Advisory.Connection, transactionId = null, expiration =
0, timestamp = 0, arrival = 0, brokerInTime = 1268403383468,
brokerOutTime = 1268403383468, correlationId = null, replyTo = null,
persistent = false, type = Advisory, priority = 0, groupID = null,
groupSequence = 0, targetConsumerId = null, compressed = false, userID =
null, content = null, marshalledProperties =
org.apache.activemq.util.ByteSequence@17e2705, dataStructure =
ConnectionInfo \{ commandId = 1, responseRequired = true, connectionId =
ID:dell-charles-3258-1268399815140-2:50, clientId =
ID:dell-charles-3258-1268399815140-14:0, userName = , password = *****,
brokerPath = null, brokerMasterConnector = false, manageable = true,
clientMaster = true }, redeliveryCounter = 0, size = 0, properties = \{
originBrokerName=master,
originBrokerId=ID:dell-charles-3258-1268399815140-0:0,
originBrokerURL=vm://master }, readOnlyProperties = true, readOnlyBody =
true, droppable = false }

[[ActiveMQ-GettingComponentJAR]]
Getting Component JAR
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You will need this dependency

* *`activemq-camel`*

link:activemq.html[ActiveMQ] is an extension of the link:jms.html[JMS]
component released with the http://activemq.apache.org[ActiveMQ
project].

<dependency> <groupId>org.apache.activemq</groupId>
<artifactId>activemq-camel</artifactId> <version>5.6.0</version>
</dependency>

link:endpoint-see-also.html[Endpoint See Also]
