[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[AdviceWith-AdviceWith]]
AdviceWith
~~~~~~~~~~

*Available as of Camel 2.1*

AdviceWith is used for testing Camel routes where you can _advice_ an
existing route before its being tested. What *`adviceWith`* allows is to
changes some factors on the route before the test is being run. At the
current time you can _advice_ an existing route by adding
link:intercept.html[Intercept], link:exception-clause.html[Exception
Clause] etc. which then will apply for the route being advice.

For example, in the route below we intercept sending a message to the
*`mock:foo`* endpoint and detour the
message.\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/interceptor/AdviceWithTest.java}

Recommendation

It is recommended to only advice a given route once (you can of course
advice multiple routes). If you do it multiple times, then it may not
work as expected, especially when any kind of error handling is
involved. +
The Camel team plan for *Camel 3.0* to support this as internal
refactorings in the routing engine is needed to support this properly.

Recommendation

It's recommended to only advice routes which are not started already. If
you advice already started routes, then it may not work as expected.

Telling Camel you are using adviceWith

From *Camel 2.9*: it's recommended to override the *`isUseAdviceWith()`*
method and return true to tell Camel you are using advice with in your
unit tests. Then after you have done the *`adviceWith()`*, then you must
start *`CamelContext`* manually. See further below for an example.

[[AdviceWith-UsingAdviceWithRouteBuilder]]
Using `AdviceWithRouteBuilder`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.7*

The *`AdviceWithRouteBuilder`* is a specialized *`RouteBuilder`* which
has additional methods for advising routes. For example this allows you
to manipulate the advised route, such as replacing a node with some
other nodes.

The *`AdviceWithRouteBuilder`* offers the following extra methods:

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Method |Description
|`mockEndpoints` |Is used to easily mock all endpoints. See more details
and examples at link:mock.html[Mock].

|`mockEndpoints(patterns)` |Is used to easily mock endpoints using a
pattern. See more details and examples at link:mock.html[Mock]. See
below for pattern matching. From Camel 2.10 onwards you can specify
multiple patterns.

|`mockEndpointsAndSkip(patterns)` |Is used to easily mock endpoints
using a pattern, and *skip* sending to the original endpoint. See more
details and examples at link:mock.html[Mock]. See below for pattern
matching. You can specify multiple patterns.

|`weaveById(pattern)` |Is used to select node(s) matching by id's, and
weave in the following nodes. See below for pattern matching and
examples.

|`weaveByToString(pattern)` |Is used to select nodes(s) matching by
their *`toString`* representation, and weave in the following nodes. See
below for pattern matching and examples.

|`weaveByType(Class)` |*Camel 2.8:* Is used to select node(s) matching
by their class type (the classes from the *`org.apache.camel.model`*
package), and weave in the following nodes. See below for examples.

|`weaveAddFirst` |*Camel 2.8:* Is a short hand to easily weave in the
following nodes in the start of the route.

|`weaveAddLast` |*Camel 2.8:* Is a short hand to easily weave in the
following nodes in the end of the route.

|`replaceFromWith(uri)` |*Camel 2.9:* To replace the route input with a
new endpoint URI.
|=======================================================================

The *`pattern`* option is used for matching. It uses the same rules as
the link:intercept.html[Intercept], which is applied in the following
order:

* match exact
* match by wildcard
* match by regular expression

For example to match exact you can use *`weaveById("foo")`* which will
match only the id in the route which has the value: *`foo`*. The
wildcard is when the pattern ends with a *`*`* character, such
as: *`weaveById("foo*")`* which will match any id's starting with
*`foo`*, such as: *`foo`, `foobar`*, *`foobie`* and so forth. The
regular expression is more advanced and allows you to match multiple
ids, such as *`weaveById("(foo|bar)")`* which will match both *`foo`*
and *`bar`*.

If you try to match a `pattern` on an exact endpoint URI, then mind that
URI options ordering may influence, and hence its best to match by
wildcard.

For example:

mockEndpointsAndSkip("activemq:queue:foo?*")

To match the *`foo`* queue and disregard any options.

[[AdviceWith-UsingweaveById]]
Using `weaveById`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The *`weaveById`* allows you to manipulate the route, for example by
replacing a node with other nodes.

The following methods are available:

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|====================================================================
|Method |Description
|`remove` |Removes the selected node(s).
|`replace` |Replaces the selected node(s) with the following nodes.
|`before` |Before the selected node(s), the following nodes is added.
|`after` |After the selected node(s), the following nodes is added.
|====================================================================

For example given the following route:

javaRoutefrom("direct:start") .to("mock:foo") .to("mock:bar").id("bar")
.to("mock:result");

Then let's go over the four methods to see how you can use them in unit
tests:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|title=Replace|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/interceptor/AdviceWithTasksTest.java}In
this example we replace the *`.to("mock:bar").id("bar")`* with the
*`.multicast().to("mock:a").to("mock:b")`*. +
That means instead of sending the message to a `mock:bar` endpoint, we
do a link:multicast.html[Multicast] to `mock:a` and `mock:b` endpoints
instead.\{snippet:id=e2|lang=java|title=Remove|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/interceptor/AdviceWithTasksTest.java}In
the example above, we simply just remove the
*`.to("mock:bar").id("bar")`*.\{snippet:id=e3|lang=java|title=Before|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/interceptor/AdviceWithTasksTest.java}In
the example above, we add the following nodes
*`to("mock:a").transform(constant("Bye World"))` before* the node with
the id *`bar`*. +
That means the message being send to *`mock:bar`* would have been
transformed to a constant message
"*`Bye World`*".\{snippet:id=e4|lang=java|title=After|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/interceptor/AdviceWithTasksTest.java}In
the example above, we add the following nodes
*`to("mock:a").transform(constant("Bye World"))` after* the node with
the id `bar`.

[[AdviceWith-UsingweaveByToString]]
Using `weaveByToString`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The *`weaveByToString`* also allows you to manipulate the route, for
example by replacing a node with other nodes. As opposed to
*`weaveById`*, this method uses the *`toString`* representation of the
node(s) when matching. This allows you to match nodes, which may not
have assigned ids, or to match link:eip.html[EIP] pattern. You have to
be a bit more careful when using this as the *`toString`* representation
can be verbose and contain characters such as *[ ] ( )->* and so forth.
That is why using the regular expression matching is the must usable.

The *`weaveByToString`* has the same methods as *`weaveById`*.

For example to replace any nodes which has `"foo"` you can
do\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|title=Replace|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/interceptor/AdviceWithTasksToStringPatternTest.java}Notice
that we have to use `".foo."` in the pattern to match that `"foo"` is
present anywhere in the string.

[[AdviceWith-UsingweaveByType]]
Using `weaveByType`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.8*

The *`weaveByToType`* also allows you to manipulate the route, for
example by replacing a node with other nodes. As opposed to
*`weaveById`, and* `weaveByToString` this method uses the class type of
the node(s) when matching. This allows you to match link:eip.html[EIP]
pattern by its type.

The *`weaveByToType`* has the same methods as *`weaceById`* and
*`weaveByToString`*.

For example to remove a transform from the following
route:\{snippet:id=e5|lang=java|title=Route|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/interceptor/AdviceWithTypeTest.java}You
can
do:\{snippet:id=e2|lang=java|title=Remove|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/interceptor/AdviceWithTypeTest.java}

[[AdviceWith-UsingSelectors]]
Using Selectors
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available os of Camel 2.8*

The following methods *`weaveById(pattern)`*,
*`weaveByToString(pattern)`* and *`weaveByType(Class)`* each match N+
nodes. By using optional selectors you can narrow down the nodes being
used. For example if *`weaveByType(Class)`* returns 2 nodes. Then you
can use a selector to indicate it should only select the first node.

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Selector |Description
|`selectFirst` |Will only select the first matched node.

|`selectLast` |Will only select the last matched node.

|`selectIndex(index)` |Will only select the N'th matched node. The index
is zero-based.

|`selectRange(from, to)` |Will only select the matches node within the
given range by index (both inclusive). The index is zero-based.

|`maxDeep(to)` |*Camel 2.14.2/2.15:* To limit the selection to at most N
level deep in the Camel route tree. The first level is starting from
number 1. So number 2 is the children of the 1st level nodes.
|=======================================================================

For example to remove the first *`.to`* node in route you can do as
follows:

javacontext.getRouteDefinitions().get(0).adviceWith(context, new
AdviceWithRouteBuilder() \{ @Override public void configure() throws
Exception \{ // only remove the first to node in the route
weaveByType(ToDefinition.class).selectFirst().remove(); } });

[[AdviceWith-UsingweaveAddFirst/weaveAddLast]]
Using `weaveAddFirst` / `weaveAddLast`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.8*

The *`weaveAddFirst`* and *`weaveAddLast`* is a shorthand to easily add
nodes to the route. These methods can only *add* to an existing routes.
If you want to manipulate the route, then there are plenty of methods as
already shown on this page.

For example if you want to send a message to a *`mock:input`* endpoint
you can do as follows:

javacontext.getRouteDefinitions().get(0).adviceWith(context, new
AdviceWithRouteBuilder() \{ @Override public void configure() throws
Exception \{ // send the incoming message to mock:input
weaveAddFirst().to("mock:input"); } });

Likewise if you want to easily send a message to a `mock:output`
endpoint you can do as follows:

javacontext.getRouteDefinitions().get(0).adviceWith(context, new
AdviceWithRouteBuilder() \{ @Override public void configure() throws
Exception \{ // send the outgoing message to mock:output
weaveAddLast().to("mock:output"); } });

You can of course combine those in the same advice with:

javacontext.getRouteDefinitions().get(0).adviceWith(context, new
AdviceWithRouteBuilder() \{ @Override public void configure() throws
Exception \{ weaveAddFirst().to("mock:input");
weaveAddLast().to("mock:output"); } });

[[AdviceWith-ReplacefromWithAnotherEndpoint]]
Replace `from` With Another Endpoint
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.9*

You may have routes which consumes messages from endpoints which you
want to substitute with another endpoint for easier unit testing. For
example a link:jms.html[JMS] endpoint could be replaced with a
link:seda.html[SEDA] or link:direct.html[Direct] for unit testing a
route, as shown below where we replace the input of the route to
a *`seda:foo`* endpoint:

javacontext.getRouteDefinitions().get(0).adviceWith(context, new
AdviceWithRouteBuilder() \{ @Override public void configure() throws
Exception \{ replaceFromWith("seda:foo"); } });

[[AdviceWith-UsingMockEndpoints]]
Using Mock Endpoints
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

While routing messages, you may want to easily know how the messages was
routed. For example you can let Camel mock all endpoints, which mean
that when a message is sent to any endpoint, its first send to a mock
endpoint, and then afterwards to the original endpoint. Then from your
unit tests, you can setup expectations on the mock endpoints.

See more details see: _Mocking existing endpoints using the camel-test
component_ at link:mock.html[Mock].

[[AdviceWith-UsingisUseAdviceWith()]]
Using `isUseAdviceWith()`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.9* +
It is recommended to override the method *`isUseAdviceWith`* and return
*`true`* to instruct Camel that you are using *`adviceWith`* in the unit
tests. Then in your unit test methods, after you have done the
*`adviceWith`* you *must* start *`CamelContext`* by invoke the *`start`*
method on the `context` instance. In the following we have an example.
The route is using link:activemq.html[ActiveMQ] to route messages. What
we would like to do in a unit test is to test the route, but without
having to set and use link:activemq.html[ActiveMQ]. We do not have
link:activemq.html[ActiveMQ] on the classpath. So for that we need to
advice the route and replace link:activemq.html[ActiveMQ] with for
example a link:seda.html[SEDA] endpoint
instead.\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|title=isUseAdviceWith|url=camel/branches/camel-2.9.x/components/camel-test/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/test/IsUseAdviceWithJUnit4Test.java}
