[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[Aggregator2-Aggregator]]
Aggregator
^^^^^^^^^^

*This applies for Camel version 2.3 or newer. If you use an older
version then use this link:aggregator.html[Aggregator] link instead.*

The
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/Aggregator.html[Aggregator]
from the link:enterprise-integration-patterns.html[EIP patterns] allows
you to combine a number of messages together into a single message.

image:http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/img/Aggregator.gif[image]

A correlation link:expression.html[Expression] is used to determine the
messages which should be aggregated together. If you want to aggregate
all messages into a single message, just use a constant expression.
An *`AggregationStrategy`* is used to combine all the message exchanges
for a single correlation key into a single message exchange.

[[Aggregator2-Aggregatoroptions]]
Aggregator options
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The aggregator supports the following options:

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Default |Description
|`correlationExpression` |  |Mandatory link:expression.html[Expression]
which evaluates the correlation key to use for aggregation. The
link:exchange.html[Exchange] which has the same correlation key is
aggregated together. If the correlation key could not be evaluated an
Exception is thrown. You can disable this by using the
*`ignoreBadCorrelationKeys`* option.

|`aggregationStrategy` |  a|
Mandatory *`AggregationStrategy`* which is used to _merge_ the incoming
link:exchange.html[Exchange] with the existing already merged exchanges.
At first call the *`oldExchange`* parameter is *`null`*. On subsequent
invocations the *`oldExchange`* contains the merged exchanges and
*`newExchange`* is of course the new incoming Exchange.

From *Camel 2.9.2* onwards the strategy can also be a
*`TimeoutAwareAggregationStrategy`* implementation, supporting the
timeout callback, see further below for more details.

From *Camel 2.16*: the strategy can also be a
*`PreCompletionAwareAggregationStrategy`* implementation which then runs
the completion check in pre-completion mode. See further below for more
details.

|`strategyRef` |  |A reference to lookup the *`AggregationStrategy`* in
the link:registry.html[Registry]. From *Camel 2.12* onwards you can also
use a POJO as the *`AggregationStrategy`*, see further below for
details.

|`strategyMethodName` |  |*Camel 2.12:* This option can be used to
explicit declare the method name to use, when using POJOs as the
*`AggregationStrategy`*. See further below for more details.

|`strategyMethodAllowNull` |`false` |*Camel 2.12:* If this option is
*`false`* then the aggregate method is not used for the very first
aggregation. If this option is *`true`* then *`null`* values is used as
the *`oldExchange`* (at the very first aggregation), when using POJOs as
the *`AggregationStrategy`*. See further below for more details.

|`completionSize` |  |Number of messages aggregated before the
aggregation is complete. This option can be set as either a fixed value
or using an link:expression.html[Expression] which allows you to
evaluate a size dynamically - will use *`Integer`* as result. If both
are set Camel will fallback to use the fixed value if the
link:expression.html[Expression] result was *`null`* or *`0`*.

|`completionTimeout` |  |Time in millis that an aggregated exchange
should be inactive before its complete. This option can be set as either
a fixed value or using an link:expression.html[Expression] which allows
you to evaluate a timeout dynamically - will use *`Long`* as result. If
both are set Camel will fallback to use the fixed value if the
link:expression.html[Expression] result was *`null`* or *`0`*. You
cannot use this option together with *`completionInterval`*, only one of
the two can be used.

|`completionInterval` |  |A repeating period in millis by which the
aggregator will complete all current aggregated exchanges. Camel has a
background task which is triggered every period. You cannot use this
option together with *`completionTimeout`*, only one of them can be
used.

|`completionPredicate` |  a|
A link:predicate.html[Predicate] to indicate when an aggregated exchange
is complete.

From *Camel 2.15*: if this is not specified and
the *`AggregationStrategy`* object implements Predicate,
the *`aggregationStrategy`* object will be used as the
*`completionPredicate`*.

|`completionFromBatchConsumer` |`false` |This option is if the exchanges
are coming from a link:batch-consumer.html[Batch Consumer]. Then when
enabled the link:aggregator2.html[Aggregator2] will use the batch size
determined by the link:batch-consumer.html[Batch Consumer] in the
message header *`CamelBatchSize`*. See more details at
link:batch-consumer.html[Batch Consumer]. This can be used to aggregate
all files consumed from a link:file2.html[File] endpoint in that given
poll.

|`forceCompletionOnStop` |`false` |*Camel 2.9* Indicates to complete all
current aggregated exchanges when the context is stopped

|`completeAllOnStop` |`false` |*Camel 2.16:* Indicates to wait to
complete all current and partial (pending) aggregated exchanges when the
context is stopped. This also means that we will wait for all pending
exchanges which are stored in the aggregation repository to complete so
the repository is empty before we can stop.  You may want to enable this
when using the memory based aggregation repository that is memory based
only, and do not store data on disk. When this option is enabled, then
the aggregator is waiting to complete all those exchanges before its
stopped, when stopping CamelContext or the route using it.

|`eagerCheckCompletion` |`false` |Whether or not to eager check for
completion when a new incoming link:exchange.html[Exchange] has been
received. This option influences the behavior of the
*`completionPredicate`* option as the link:exchange.html[Exchange] being
passed in changes accordingly. When *`false`* the
link:exchange.html[Exchange] passed in the
link:predicate.html[Predicate] is the _aggregated_ Exchange which means
any information you may store on the aggregated Exchange from
the *`AggregationStrategy`* is available for the
link:predicate.html[Predicate]. When `true` the
link:exchange.html[Exchange] passed in the
link:predicate.html[Predicate] is the _incoming_
link:exchange.html[Exchange], which means you can access data from the
incoming Exchange.

|`groupExchanges` |`false` a|
If enabled then Camel will group all aggregated Exchanges into a single
combined *`org.apache.camel.impl.GroupedExchange`* holder class that
holds all the aggregated Exchanges. And as a result only one Exchange is
being sent out from the aggregator. Can be used to combine many incoming
Exchanges into a single output Exchange without coding a
custom *`AggregationStrategy`* yourself.

*Note:* this option does *not* support persistent repository with the
aggregator. See further below for an example and more details.

|`ignoreInvalidCorrelationKeys` |`false` |Whether or not to ignore
correlation keys which could not be evaluated to a value. By default
Camel will throw an Exception, but you can enable this option and ignore
the situation instead.

|`closeCorrelationKeyOnCompletion` |  |Whether or not too _late_
Exchanges should be accepted or not. You can enable this to indicate
that if a correlation key has already been completed, then any new
exchanges with the same correlation key be denied. Camel will then throw
a *`closedCorrelationKeyException`* exception. When using this option
you pass in a *`integer`* which is a number for a LRUCache which keeps
that last X number of closed correlation keys. You can pass in 0 or a
negative value to indicate a unbounded cache. By passing in a number you
are ensured that cache won't grow too big if you use a log of different
correlation keys.

|`discardOnCompletionTimeout` |`false` |*Camel 2.5:* Whether or not
exchanges which complete due to a timeout should be discarded. If
enabled then when a timeout occurs the aggregated message will *not* be
sent out but dropped (discarded).

|`aggregationRepository` |  |Allows you to plugin you own implementation
of *`org.apache.camel.spi.AggregationRepository`* which keeps track of
the current inflight aggregated exchanges. Camel uses by default a
memory based implementation.

|`aggregationRepositoryRef` |  |Reference to lookup a
*`aggregationRepository`* in the link:registry.html[Registry].

|`parallelProcessing` |`false` |When aggregated are completed they are
being send out of the aggregator. This option indicates whether or not
Camel should use a thread pool with multiple threads for concurrency. If
no custom thread pool has been specified then Camel creates a default
pool with 10 concurrent threads.

|`executorService` |  |If using *`parallelProcessing`* you can specify a
custom thread pool to be used. In fact also if you are not using
*`parallelProcessing`* this custom thread pool is used to send out
aggregated exchanges as well.

|`executorServiceRef` |  |Reference to lookup a *`executorService`* in
the link:registry.html[Registry]

|`timeoutCheckerExecutorService` |  |*Camel 2.9:* If using either of the
*`completionTimeout`*, *`completionTimeoutExpression`*, or
*`completionInterval`* options a background thread is created to check
for the completion for every aggregator. Set this option to provide a
custom thread pool to be used rather than creating a new thread for
every aggregator.

|`timeoutCheckerExecutorServiceRef` |  |*Camel 2.9:* Reference to lookup
a *`timeoutCheckerExecutorService`* in the link:registry.html[Registry]

|`optimisticLocking` |`false` |*Camel 2.11:* Turns on using optimistic
locking, which requires the *`aggregationRepository`* being used, is
supporting this by implementing the
*`org.apache.camel.spi.OptimisticLockingAggregationRepository`*
interface.

|`optimisticLockRetryPolicy` |  |*Camel 2.11.1:* Allows to configure
retry settings when using optimistic locking.
|=======================================================================

[[Aggregator2-ExchangeProperties]]
Exchange Properties
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following properties are set on each aggregated Exchange:

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Header |Type |Description
|`CamelAggregatedSize` |`int` |The total number of Exchanges aggregated
into this combined Exchange.

|`CamelAggregatedCompletedBy` |`String` |Indicator how the aggregation
was completed as a value of either: *`predicate`*, *`size`*,
*`strategy`*, *`consumer`*, *`timeout`*, *`forceCompletion`* or
*`interval`*.
|=======================================================================

[[Aggregator2-AboutAggregationStrategy]]
About AggregationStrategy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The *`AggregationStrategy`* is used for aggregating the old (lookup by
its correlation id) and the new exchanges together into a single
exchange. Possible implementations include performing some kind of
combining or delta processing, such as adding line items together into
an invoice or just using the newest exchange and removing old exchanges
such as for state tracking or market data prices; where old values are
of little use.

Notice the aggregation strategy is a mandatory option and must be
provided to the aggregator.

Here are a few example *`AggregationStrategy`* implementations that
should help you create your own custom strategy.

class ArrayListAggregationStrategy implements AggregationStrategy \{
public Exchange aggregate(Exchange oldExchange, Exchange newExchange) \{
Object newBody = newExchange.getIn().getBody(); ArrayList
