[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[Aggregator-Aggregator]]
Aggregator
^^^^^^^^^^

*This applies for Camel version 2.2 or older. If you use a newer version
then the Aggregator has been rewritten from Camel 2.3 on and you should
use this link:aggregator2.html[Aggregator2] link instead.*

The
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/Aggregator.html[Aggregator]
from the link:enterprise-integration-patterns.html[EIP patterns] allows
you to combine a number of messages together into a single message.

image:http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/img/Aggregator.gif[image]

A correlation link:expression.html[Expression] is used to determine the
messages which should be aggregated together. If you want to aggregate
all messages into a single message, just use a constant expression.
An *`AggregationStrategy`* is used to combine all the message exchanges
for a single correlation key into a single message exchange. The default
strategy just chooses the latest message; so its ideal for throttling
messages.

For example, imagine a stock market data system; you are receiving
30,000 messages per second; you may want to throttle down the updates
as, say, a GUI cannot cope with such massive update rates. So you may
want to aggregate these messages together so that within a window
(defined by a maximum number of messages or a timeout), messages for the
same stock are aggregated together; by just choosing the latest message
and discarding the older prices. (You could apply a delta processing
algorithm if you prefer to capture some of the history).

[Tip]
====
 **Using the aggregator correctly**

Torsten Mielke wrote a nice
http://tmielke.blogspot.com/2009/01/using-camel-aggregator-correctly.html[blog
entry] with his thoughts and experience on using the aggreagator. Its a
well worth read.

====

[Info]
====
 **AggregationStrategy changed in Camel 2.0**

In Camel 2.0 the *`AggregationStrategy`* callback have been changed to
also be invoked on the very first Exchange.

On the first invocation of the *`aggregate`* method the *`oldExchange`*
parameter is *`null`*. The reason is that we have not aggregated
anything yet. +
So its only the *`newExchange`* that has a value. Usually you just
return the *`newExchange`* in this situation. But you still have the
power to decide what to do, for example you can do some alternation on
the exchange or remove some headers. And a more common use case is for
instance to count some values from the body payload. That could be to
sum up a total amount etc.

====

[Warning]
====
 **BatchTimeout and CompletionPredicate**

You cannot use both *`batchTimeout`* and *`completionPredicate`* to
trigger a completion based on either on reaching its goal first. The
batch timeout will always trigger first, at that given interval.

====

*Using the link:fluent-builders.html[Fluent Builders]*

The following example shows how to aggregate messages so that only the
latest message for a specific value of the *`cheese`* header are sent.

If you were using JMS then you may wish to use the *`JMSDestination`*
header as the correlation key; or some custom header for the stock
symbol (using the above stock market example).

[source,brush:,java;,gutter:,false;,theme:,Default]
----
from("activemq:someReallyFastTopic")
  .aggregator(header("JMSDestination"))
  .to("activemq:someSlowTopicForGuis");
----

You can of course use many different link:expression.html[Expression]
languages such as link:xpath.html[XPath], link:xquery.html[XQuery],
link:sql.html[SQL] or various link:scripting-languages.html[Scripting
Languages]. +
Here is an example using *XPath*:

[source,brush:,java;,gutter:,false;,theme:,Default]
----
//aggregate based on the message content using an XPath expression
//example assumes an XML document starting with <stockQuote symbol='...'>
//aggregate messages based on their symbol attribute within the <stockQuote> element
from("seda:start").aggregate().xpath("/stockQuote/@symbol", String.class).batchSize(5).to("mock:result");

//this example will aggregate all messages starting with <stockQuote symbol='APACHE'> into 
//one exchange and all the other messages (different symbol or different root element) into another exchange.
from("seda:start").aggregate().xpath("name(/stockQuote[@symbol='APACHE'])", String.class).batchSize(5).to("mock:result");
----

For further examples of this pattern in use you could look at the
http://svn.apache.org/viewvc/camel/tags/camel-2.2.0/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/AggregatorTest.java?view=markup[junit
test case]

*Using the link:spring-xml-extensions.html[Spring XML Extensions]*

The *`correlationExpression`* element is in Camel 2.0. For earlier
versions of Camel you will need to specify your expression without the
enclosing *`correlationExpression`* element.

[source,brush:,java;,gutter:,false;,theme:,Default]
----
<aggregator>
  <simple>header.cheese</simple>
  <to uri="mock:result"/>
</aggregator>
----

The following example shows how to create a simple aggregator using the
XML notation; using an link:expression.html[Expression] for the
correlation value used to aggregate messages together.

You can specify your own *`AggregationStrategy`* if you prefer as shown
in the following example

Notice how the *`strategyRef`* attribute is used on the *`<aggregator>`*
element to refer to the custom strategy in Spring.

[[Aggregator-ExchangeProperties]]
Exchange Properties
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following properties is set on each Exchange that are aggregated:

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|header |type |description
|`org.apache.camel.Exchange.AggregatedCount` |int |Camel 1.x: The total
number of Exchanges aggregated in this combined Exchange.

|`CamelAggregatedSize` |int |Camel 2.0: The total number of Exchanges
aggregated into this combined Exchange.

|`CamelAggregatedIndex` |int |Camel 2.0: The current index of this
Exchange in the batch.
|=======================================================================

[[Aggregator-Batchoptions]]
Batch options
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The aggregator supports the following batch options:

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Default |Description
|`batchSize` |`100` a|
The *in* batch size. This is the number of incoming exchanges that is
processed by the aggregator and when this threshold is reached the batch
is completed and send.

*Camel 1.6.2/2.0:* You can disable the batch size so the Aggregator is
only triggered by timeout by setting the *`batchSize`* to 0 (or
negative).

In *Camel 1.6.1* or older you can set the *`batchSize`* to a very large
number to archive the same.

|`outBatchSize` |`0` |*Camel 1.5:* The *out* batch size. This is the
number of exchanges currently aggregated in the
*`AggregationCollection`*. When this threshold is reached the batch is
completed and send. By default this option is disabled. The difference
to the *`batchSize`* options is that this is for outgoing, so setting
this size to e.g. 50 ensures that this batch will at maximum contain 50
exchanges when its sent.

|`batchTimeout` |`1000L` |Timeout in millis. How long should the
aggregator wait before its completed and sends whatever it has currently
aggregated.

|`groupExchanges` |`false` |*Camel 2.0*: If enabled then Camel will
group all aggregated Exchanges into a single combined
*`org.apache.camel.impl.GroupedExchange`* holder class that holds all
the aggregated Exchanges. And as a result only one Exchange is being
sent out from the aggregator. Can be used to combine many incoming
Exchanges into a single output Exchange without coding a
custom *`AggregationStrategy`* yourself.

|`batchConsumer` |`false` |*Camel 2.0*: This option is if the exchanges
is coming from a link:batch-consumer.html[Batch Consumer]. Then when
enabled the link:aggregator.html[Aggregator] will use the batch size
determined by the link:batch-consumer.html[Batch Consumer] in the
message header *`CamelBatchSize`*. See more details at
link:batch-consumer.html[Batch Consumer]. This can be used to aggregate
all files consumed from a link:file2.html[File] endpoint in that given
poll.

|`completionPredicate` |`null` |Allows you to use a
link:predicate.html[Predicate] to signal when an aggregation is
complete. See *warning* in top of this page.
|=======================================================================

[[Aggregator-AggregationCollectionandAggregationStrategy]]
`AggregationCollection` and `AggregationStrategy`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This aggregator uses a *`AggregationCollection`* to store the exchanges
that is currently aggregated. The *`AggregationCollection`* uses a
correlation link:expression.html[Expression] and an
*`AggregationStrategy`*.

* The correlation link:expression.html[Expression] is used to correlate
the incoming exchanges. The default implementation will group messages
based on the correlation expression. Other implementations could for
instance just add all exchanges as a batch.
* The strategy is used for aggregate the old (lookup by its correlation
id) and the new exchanges together into a single exchange. Possible
implementations include performing some kind of combining or delta
processing, such as adding line items together into an invoice or just
using the newest exchange and removing old exchanges such as for state
tracking or market data prices; where old values are of little use.

Camel provides these implementations:

* *`DefaultAggregationCollection`*
* *`PredicateAggregationCollection`*
* *`UseLatestAggregationStrategy`*

[[Aggregator-Examples]]
Examples
^^^^^^^^

[[Aggregator-Defaultexample]]
Default example
+++++++++++++++

By default Camel uses *`DefaultAggregationCollection`* and
*`UseLatestAggregationStrategy`*, so this simple example will just keep
the latest received exchange for the given correlation
link:expression.html[Expression]:

[[Aggregator-UsingPredicateAggregationCollection]]
Using `PredicateAggregationCollection`
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The *`PredicateAggregationCollection`* is an extension
to *`DefaultAggregationCollection`* that uses a
link:predicate.html[Predicate] as well to determine the completion. For
instance the link:predicate.html[Predicate] can test for a special
header value, a number of maximum aggregated so far etc. To use this the
routing is a bit more complex as we need to create
our *`AggregationCollection`* object as follows:

In this sample we use the predicate that we want at most 3 exchanges
aggregated by the same correlation id, this is defined as:

[source,brush:,java;,gutter:,false;,theme:,Default]
----
header(Exchange.AGGREGATED_COUNT).isEqualTo(3)
----

Using this the aggregator will complete if we receive 3 exchanges with
the same correlation id or when the specified timeout of 500 msecs has
elapsed (whichever criteria is met first).

[[Aggregator-UsingCustomAggregationStrategy]]
Using Custom Aggregation Strategy
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In this example we will aggregate incoming bids and want to aggregate
the highest bid. So we provide our own strategy where we implement the
code logic:

Then we setup the routing as follows:

And since this is based on an unit test we show the test code that send
the bids and what is expected as the *`winners`*:

[[Aggregator-UsingCustomAggregationCollection]]
Using Custom Aggregation Collection
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In this example we will aggregate incoming bids and want to aggregate
the bids in reverse order (this is just an example). So we provide our
own collection where we implement the code logic:

Then we setup the routing as follows:

And since this is based on an unit test we show the test code that send
the bids and what is expected as the expected reverse order:

[[Aggregator-CustomaggregationcollectioninSpringDSL]]
Custom aggregation collection in Spring DSL

You can also specify a custom aggregation collection in the Spring DSL.
Here is an example for Camel 2.0

In Camel 1.5.1 you will need to specify the aggregator as:

[source,brush:,java;,gutter:,false;,theme:,Default]
----
<aggregator batchTimeout="500" collectionRef="aggregatorCollection">
  <expression/>
  <to uri="mock:result"/>
</aggregator>
----

[[Aggregator-UsingGroupedExchanges]]
Using Grouped Exchanges
+++++++++++++++++++++++

*Available as of Camel 2.0*

You can enable grouped exchanges to combine all aggregated exchanges
into a single *`org.apache.camel.impl.GroupedExchange`* holder class
that contains all the individual aggregated exchanges. This allows you
to process a single Exchange containing all the aggregated exchange.
Lets start with how to configure this in the router:

And the next part is part of an unit code that demonstrates this feature
as we send in 5 exchanges each with a different value in the body. And
we will only get 1 exchange out of the aggregator, but we can access all
the individual aggregated exchanges from the List which we can extract
as a property from the Exchange using the key
*`Exchange.GROUPED_EXCHANGE`*.

[[Aggregator-UsingBatchConsumer]]
Using Batch Consumer
++++++++++++++++++++

*Available as of Camel 2.0*

The link:aggregator.html[Aggregator] can work together with the
link:batch-consumer.html[Batch Consumer] to aggregate the total number
of messages that the link:batch-consumer.html[Batch Consumer] have
reported. This allows you for instance to aggregate all files polled
using the link:file2.html[File] consumer.

For example:

[source,brush:,java;,gutter:,false;,theme:,Default]
----
from("file://inbox")
   .aggregate(xpath("//order/@customerId"), new AggregateCustomerOrderStrategy()).batchConsumer().batchTimeout(60000).to("bean:processOrder");
----

When using *`batchConsumer`* Camel will automatic adjust
the *`batchSize`* according to reported by the
link:batch-consumer.html[Batch Consumer] in this case the file consumer.
So if we poll in 7 files then the aggregator will aggregate all 7 files
before it completes. As the timeout is still in play we set it to 60
seconds.

[[Aggregator-UsingThisPattern]]
Using This Pattern
++++++++++++++++++

If you would like to use this EIP Pattern then please read the
link:getting-started.html[Getting Started], you may also find the
link:architecture.html[Architecture] useful particularly the description
of link:endpoint.html[Endpoint] and link:uris.html[URIs]. Then you could
try out some of the link:examples.html[Examples] first before trying
this pattern out.

[[Aggregator-Seealso]]
See also
^^^^^^^^

* The link:loan-broker-example.html[Loan Broker Example] which uses an
aggregator
* http://tmielke.blogspot.com/2009/01/using-camel-aggregator-correctly.html[Blog
post by Torsten Mielke] about using the aggregator correctly.
