[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[AsynchronousRoutingEngine-AsynchronousRoutingEngine]]
Asynchronous Routing Engine
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*Available as of Camel 2.4*

As of Camel 2.4 the asynchronous routing engine is back and kicking. +
All the link:enterprise-integration-patterns.html[Enterprise Integration
Patterns] are supported as well a selected number of
link:components.html[Components].

When we say a component is supported, that means, the component is
leveraging the asynchronous model. For example link:jetty.html[Jetty]
uses continuations and the async http client to be fully asynchronous
and non blocked. That means no threads will ever be blocked while
waiting for a reply.

In the future additional link:components.html[Components] will be
supported as well where it's applicable.

[[AsynchronousRoutingEngine-Forcingtousesynchronousprocessing]]
Forcing to use synchronous processing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can configure the endpoints with the option `synchronous=true` to
force using synchronous processing. For example when sending a web
service request using link:cxf.html[CXF], the caller will wait for the
reply if `synchronous=true` was configured. Currently this option is
supported by the all the producers. If you don't want to let the
link:cxf.html[CXF] consumer leverage the CXF continuation API to use the
asynchronous processing, you can also use this option `synchronous=true`
to disable it. The link:jbi.html[JBI] and link:nmr.html[NMR] component
are always asynchronous and doesn't support this option.

[[AsynchronousRoutingEngine-Backgroundinformation]]
Background information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

See link:asynchronous-processing.html[Asynchronous Processing] for
additional information and the concepts behind the asynchronous model.
