[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[Bean-BeanComponent]]
Bean Component
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The *bean:* component binds beans to Camel message exchanges.

[[Bean-URIformat]]
URI format
^^^^^^^^^^

bean:beanID[?options]

Where *beanID* can be any string which is used to look up the bean in
the link:registry.html[Registry]

[[Bean-Options]]
Options
^^^^^^^

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="25%,25%,25%,25%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Name |Type |Default |Description
|`method` |`String` |`null` |The method name from the bean that will be
invoked. If not provided, Camel will try to determine the method itself.
In case of ambiguity an exception will be thrown. See
link:bean-binding.html[Bean Binding] for more details. From *Camel 2.8*
onwards you can specify type qualifiers to pin-point the exact method to
use for overloaded methods. From *Camel 2.9* onwards you can specify
parameter values directly in the method syntax. See more details at
link:bean-binding.html[Bean Binding].

|`cache` |`boolean` |`false` |If enabled, Camel will cache the result of
the first link:registry.html[Registry] look-up. Cache can be enabled if
the bean in the link:registry.html[Registry] is defined as a singleton
scope.

|`multiParameterArray` |`boolean` |`false` |How to treat the parameters
which are passed from the message body; if it is `true`, the In message
body should be an array of parameters.

|bean.xxx |  |null |*Camel 2.17:* To configure additional options on the
create bean instance from the class name. For example to configure a foo
option on the bean, use bean.foo=123.
|=======================================================================

You can append query options to the URI in the following format,
`?option=value&option=value&...`

[[Bean-Using]]
Using
^^^^^

The object instance that is used to consume messages must be explicitly
registered with the link:registry.html[Registry]. For example, if you
are using Spring you must define the bean in the Spring configuration,
`spring.xml`; or if you don't use Spring, by registering the bean in
JNDI.\{snippet:id=register|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/pojo/PojoRouteTest.java}Once
an endpoint has been registered, you can build Camel routes that use it
to process
exchanges.\{snippet:id=route|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/pojo/PojoRouteTest.java}A
*bean:* endpoint cannot be defined as the input to the route; i.e. you
cannot consume from it, you can only route from some inbound message
link:endpoint.html[Endpoint] to the bean endpoint as output. So consider
using a *direct:* or *queue:* endpoint as the input.

You can use the `createProxy()` methods on
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/component/bean/ProxyHelper.html[ProxyHelper]
to create a proxy that will generate BeanExchanges and send them to any
endpoint:\{snippet:id=invoke|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/pojo/PojoRouteTest.java}And
the same route using Spring DSL:

xml<route> <from uri="direct:hello"> <to uri="bean:bye"/> </route>

[[Bean-Beanasendpoint]]
Bean as endpoint
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Camel also supports invoking link:bean.html[Bean] as an Endpoint. In the
route
below:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-spring/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/spring/bind/beanAsEndpoint.xml}What
happens is that when the exchange is routed to the `myBean` Camel will
use the link:bean-binding.html[Bean Binding] to invoke the bean. +
The source for the bean is just a plain
POJO:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-spring/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/spring/bind/ExampleBean.java}Camel
will use link:bean-binding.html[Bean Binding] to invoke the `sayHello`
method, by converting the Exchange's In body to the `String` type and
storing the output of the method on the Exchange Out body.

[[Bean-JavaDSLbeansyntax]]
Java DSL bean syntax
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Java DSL comes with syntactic sugar for the link:bean.html[Bean]
component. Instead of specifying the bean explicitly as the endpoint
(i.e. `to("bean:beanName")`) you can use the following syntax:

java// Send message to the bean endpoint // and invoke method resolved
using Bean Binding. from("direct:start").beanRef("beanName"); // Send
message to the bean endpoint // and invoke given method.
from("direct:start").beanRef("beanName", "methodName");

Instead of passing name of the reference to the bean (so that Camel will
lookup for it in the registry), you can specify the bean itself:

java// Send message to the given bean instance.
from("direct:start").bean(new ExampleBean()); // Explicit selection of
bean method to be invoked. from("direct:start").bean(new ExampleBean(),
"methodName"); // Camel will create the instance of bean and cache it
for you. from("direct:start").bean(ExampleBean.class);

[[Bean-BeanBinding]]
Bean Binding
^^^^^^^^^^^^

How bean methods to be invoked are chosen (if they are not specified
explicitly through the *method* parameter) and how parameter values are
constructed from the link:message.html[Message] are all defined by the
link:bean-binding.html[Bean Binding] mechanism which is used throughout
all of the various link:bean-integration.html[Bean Integration]
mechanisms in Camel.

link:endpoint-see-also.html[Endpoint See Also]

* link:class.html[Class] component
* link:bean-binding.html[Bean Binding]
* link:bean-integration.html[Bean Integration]
