[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[Camel2.9-JMXandreducingSpringdependency-Camel2.9-JMXandreducingSpringdependency]]
Camel 2.9 - JMX and reducing Spring dependency
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This note covers the goal for Camel 2.9 to reduce Spring dependency in
`camel-core` and other link:components.html[Components] where Spring is
not really needed.

[[Camel2.9-JMXandreducingSpringdependency-Background]]
Background
^^^^^^^^^^

In `camel-core` we support Spring JMX annotations when we enlist MBeans
in JMX. In fact Spring JMX must be on the classpath to be able to use
JMX with Camel at all. +
If Spring JARs is not on the classpath, Camel will automatic disable
JMX. This puts a burden on end users of Camel who may not use Spring to
include 8+ Spring JARs to have support for JMX.

Some Camel link:components.html[Components] such as
link:velocity.html[Velocity], link:freemarker.html[Freemarker],
link:xslt.html[XSLT] uses Spring Resource API to load resources over the
classpath etc. This does not work in OSGi blueprint, etc. Instead we
should rely on the link:pluggable-class-resolvers.html[Pluggable Class
Resolvers] provided by Camel that works with OSGi, JBoss and other
containers.

[[Camel2.9-JMXandreducingSpringdependency-Design]]
Design
^^^^^^

The Spring JMX annotation support code in `camel-core` should be moved
to `camel-spring`. This allows people to keep using Spring JMX
annotations. +
We should add a SPI plugin in `camel-core` so `camel-spring` can hook in
the Spring JMX annotation support it now provides. Likewise 3rd party
can inject their custom integration.

We should provide a basic set of Camel JMX annotations in `camel-core`
that the various Camel link:components.html[Components] should use. This
ensures we its stil easy to have link:components.html[Components] enlist
in JMX with custom attributes and operations. For example Apache
ActiveMQ has a set of JMX annotations as well.

This also allows Camel end users to use these new Camel JMX annotations
in their custom Camel components. Then they do not need to use Spring
JMX annotations, and thus bring in maybe unneeded dependency on Spring
JARs in their code.

The `ResourceEndpoint` from `camel-spring` should be moved to
`camel-core` and rely on `ClassResolver` API from Camel to load
resources from the classpath. +
We would need to add support for the http scheme, and the file scheme.
But those are easy. Then we can migrate the
link:freemarker.html[Freemarker], link:velocity.html[Velocity],
link:xslt.html[XSLT] components to not depend on Spring/camel-spring.

[[Camel2.9-JMXandreducingSpringdependency-ReducingruntimeJARs]]
Reducing runtime JARs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Since Spring JARs will no longer be mandatory on the classpath for JMX
support, we can reduce the runtime JAR dependency for Camel end users.
Most end users of Camel will need to support JMX, so essentially we
force them to add Spring JARs. That means they only need slf4j logging
and commons-management JARs.

[[Camel2.9-JMXandreducingSpringdependency-Portingcommons-managementtocamel-core]]
Porting commons-management to camel-core
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Currently `camel-core` rely on
http://fusesource.com/forge/projects/commonman[commons-management] for
basic JMX support. We should consider porting this code into the
`camel-core` codebase. +
This reduces the mandatory JARs for `camel-core` to only the sfl4j
logging API. This is as low as we can get.

[[Camel2.9-JMXandreducingSpringdependency-OthercomponentsusingSpring]]
Other components using Spring
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The link:mail.html[Mail] and link:jms.html[JMS] component currently
depend on Spring JARs. There is a work in progress patch for the
link:mail.html[Mail] component to be able to run without Spring. The
link:jms.html[JMS] component is however heavily dependent on Spring, as
it uses spring-jms. We may in the future consider writing a new light
weight JMS component that has less features, but can work without
Spring. However this is not the goal for Camel 2.9. If we do our own jms
abstraction which might be a good idea then we should put it in a apache
commons project as it would also help other projects like cxf.
