[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[CamelSecurity-CamelSecurity]]
Camel Security
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Camel offers robust & comprehensive security on routes at the

* Payload Level (XMLSecurity, Crypto)
* Component Level (Jetty, CXF, Netty, MINA, CometD, JMS)
* Route Level (Shiro and Spring Security)

For more details on the various security options, please check out

* http://camel.apache.org/security.html[Camel Security Offerings and
Capabilities]

[[CamelSecurity-DesignNotesforCamelSecurity]]
Design Notes for Camel Security
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

There are some requirements about implementing a security mechanism in
camel, in this way we can make sure the authenticated exchange can be
sent to a certain authorized endpoints.

[[CamelSecurity-Userstory]]
User story
^^^^^^^^^^

As camel route may not provides GUI or other interface for user to type
their username and password, camel doesn't implement the authentication
itself. We just delegate the authentication to other framework, and make
sure the exchange is set with authenticated information. User can use
JAAS or other security framework to implement the authentication
himself.

Here are lots of security framework which supports different kind of
authorizations, we should support different kind of configuration about
setting the access control on the security check point. In camel we can
provide DSL to set the authorization policy on the endpoints, when the
authenticated exchange send to the endpoint, camel just checks the
authenticated information with the authorization policy to determine if
the exchange has the right to access this endpoint. If not, the exchange
will be rejected with a security exception.

[[CamelSecurity-Authentication]]
Authentication
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Before sending the exchange into the camel route, we need to make sure
the authentication information is stored into the exchange property. We
could add the authentication on the Jetty consumer with basic http
authentication, but in most case we just implement the authentication on
the camel route client, and the client should store the authentication
instance into the exchange before sending it to the endpoints of camel
route.

To support Spring Security framework we can store the authentication
instance of Spring security with Exchange.AUTHENTICATION as the key into
the exchange property, if we want to support other security framework,
we could also store other framework's authentication information into
the exchange .

[[CamelSecurity-Authorization]]
Authorization
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To provide the access control on the endpoint, we can leverage the
Policy Definition to inject the AuthorizationPolicy instance with the
access control configuration at the runtime. In this way user can
configure the different authorizationPolicy which based on different
security framework with Spring or Java DSL easily.

Lets take the spring security as an example, authorizationPolicy will be
used to verify exchange with the authentication information to check if
the exchange authentication has the right role to access the endpoint.

[source,brush:,java;,gutter:,false;,theme:,Default]
----
    
<beans xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans"
        xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
        xmlns:security="http://www.springframework.org/schema/security"
        xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans
                        http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans.xsd
                        http://camel.apache.org/schema/spring
          http://camel.apache.org/schema/spring/camel-spring.xsd
          http://camel.apache.org/schema/spring/security
          http://camel.apache.org/schema/spring/security/camel-spring-security.xsd
          http://www.springframework.org/schema/security
        http://www.springframework.org/schema/security/spring-security.xsd
                        http://camel.apache.org/schema/security
                        http://camel.apache.org/schema/security/camel-security.xsd">

        <security:authentication-manager id=authenticationManager>
            <security:authentication-provider>
                <security:user-service>
            <security:user name="jimi" password="jimispassword" authorities="ROLE_USER, ROLE_ADMIN"/>
            <security:user name="bob" password="bobspassword" authorities="ROLE_USER"/>
            </security:user-service>
            </security:authentication-provider>
        </security:authentication-manager

    <bean id="accessDecisionManager" class="org.springframework.security.vote.AffirmativeBased">
        <property name="allowIfAllAbstainDecisions" value="true"/>
        <property name="decisionVoters">
            <list>
                <bean class="org.springframework.security.vote.RoleVoter"/>
            </list>
        </property>
    </bean>

        <authorizationPolicy id="admin" access="ROLE_ADMIN" 
          authenticationManager="authenticationManager"
          accessDecisionManage="accessDecisionManager"
           xmlns="http://camel.apache.org/schema/spring/security"/>

       <camelContext id="camel" xmlns="http://camel.apache.org/schema/spring">
         <route>
           <from uri="direct:start"/>
           <policy ref="admin"/>
           <to uri="direct:security-endpoint"/>
         </route>
      </camelContext>
        
</beans>
----

[[CamelSecurity-SpringSecurityintegration]]
Spring Security integration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

camel-core should know nothing about Spring Security, the
AuthorizationPolicy and the spring customer parser are the part of
camel-spring-security module, we just need to implement the access
control with the help of Spring Security framework in the
AuthorizationPolicy.

[[CamelSecurity-TODOs]]
TODOs
^^^^^

We could configure the policy on camel endpoint with regular express +
More friendly authentication API which can plugin to the other endpoint
