[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[CamelTest-CamelTest]]
Camel Test
~~~~~~~~~~

As a simple alternative to using link:cdi-testing.html[CDI
Testing], link:spring-testing.html[Spring Testing] or
link:guice.html[Guice] the *camel-test* module was introduced so you can
perform powerful link:testing.html[Testing] of your
link:enterprise-integration-patterns.html[Enterprise Integration
Patterns] easily.

JUnit or TestNG

The *`camel-test`* JAR is using JUnit. There is an alternative
*`camel-testng`* JAR (from *Camel 2.8*) using the
http://testng.org/doc/index.html[TestNG] test framework.

[[CamelTest-Addingtoyourpom.xml]]
Adding to your `pom.xml`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To get started using Camel Test you will need to add an entry to your
*`pom.xml`*:

[[CamelTest-JUnit]]
JUnit
+++++

xml<dependency> <groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId>
<artifactId>camel-test</artifactId> <version>$\{camel-version}</version>
<scope>test</scope> </dependency>

[[CamelTest-TestNG]]
TestNG
++++++

*Available as of Camel 2.8*

xml<dependency> <groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId>
<artifactId>camel-testng</artifactId>
<version>$\{camel-version}</version> <scope>test</scope> </dependency>

You might also want to add *`slf4j`* and *`log4j`* to ensure nice
logging messages (and maybe adding a
http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/camel/trunk/components/camel-test/src/test/resources/log4j.properties[log4j.properties]
file into your *`src/test/resources`* directory).

xml<dependency> <groupId>org.slf4j</groupId>
<artifactId>slf4j-log4j12</artifactId> <scope>test</scope> </dependency>
<dependency> <groupId>log4j</groupId> <artifactId>log4j</artifactId>
<scope>test</scope> </dependency>

[[CamelTest-Writingyourtest]]
Writing your test
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You firstly need to derive from the
class *`CamelTestSupport`* *(`org.apache.camel.test.CamelTestSupport`,
`org.apache.camel.test.junit4.CamelTestSupport`*,
or *`org.apache.camel.testng.CamelTestSupport`* for JUnit 3.x, JUnit
4.x, and TestNG, respectively) and typically you will need to override
the **`createRouteBuilder()`* or *`createRouteBuilders()`** method to
create routes to be tested.

Here is an
http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/camel/trunk/components/camel-test/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/test/patterns/FilterTest.java[example].\{snippet:lang=java|id=example|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-test/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/test/patterns/FilterTest.java}*Note*:
how you can use the various link:bean-integration.html[Camel binding and
injection annotations] to inject individual link:endpoint.html[Endpoint]
objects - particularly the link:mock.html[Mock endpoints] which are very
useful for link:testing.html[Testing]. Also you can inject
link:pojo-producing.html[producer objects such as ProducerTemplate or
some application code interface] for sending messages or invoking
services.

[[CamelTest-FeaturesProvidedbyCamelTestSupport]]
Features Provided by `CamelTestSupport`
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The various *`CamelTestSupport`* classes provide a standard set of
behaviors relating to the *`CamelContext`* used to host the route(s)
under test.  The classes provide a number of methods that allow a test
to alter the configuration of the *`CamelContext`* used.  The following
table describes the available customization methods and the default
behavior of tests that are built from a *`CamelTestSupport`* class.

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Method Name |Description |Default Behavior
|`boolean isUseRouteBuilder()` |If the route builders returned from
either *`createRouteBuilder()`* or *`createRouteBuilders()`* should be
added to the *`CamelContext`* for the test to be started. a|
Returns *`true`*. 

**`createRouteBuilder()`* or *`createRouteBuilders()`** are invoked and
the *`CamelContext`* is started automatically.

|`boolean isUseAdviceWith()` a|
If the *`CamelContext`* use in the test should be automatically started
before test methods are invoked.

 +
Override when using link:advicewith.html[advice with] and return
*`true`*.  This helps in knowing the *`adviceWith()`* is to be used, and
the *`CamelContext`* will not be started before the advice with takes
place. This delay helps by ensuring the advice with has been property
setup before the *`CamelContext`* is started.

Its important to start the *`CamelContext`* manually from the unit test
after you are done doing all the advice with.

 a|
Returns *`false`*. 

The *`CamelContext`* is started automatically before test methods are
invoked.

|`boolean isCreateCamelContextPerClass()`
|See link:camel-test.html[Setup CamelContext once per class, or per
every test method]. |The *`CamelContext`* and routes are recreated for
each test method.

|`String isMockEndpoints()` a|
Triggers the auto-mocking of endpoints whose URIs match the provided
filter.  The default filter is *`null`* which disables this feature.  

Return *`"*"`*  to match all endpoints.  

See *`org.apache.camel.impl.InterceptSendToMockEndpointStrategy`*
for more details on the registration of the mock endpoints.

 |Disabled

|`boolean isUseDebugger()` a|
If this method returns *`true`*, the methods:

* *`debugBefore(Exchange exchange, Processor processor, ProcessorDefinition<?> definition, String id, String label)`*
* *`debugAfter(Exchange exchange, Processor processor, ProcessorDefinition<?> definition, String id, String label, long timeTaken)`*

are invoked for each processor in the registered routes.

 a|
Disabled

The methods are not invoked during the test.

|`int getShutdownTimeout()` a|
Returns the number of seconds that Camel should wait for graceful
shutdown.  

Useful for decreasing test times when a message is still in flight at
the end of the test.

 |10 seconds

|`boolean useJmx()` |If JMX should be disabled on the *`CamelContext`*
used in the test. |JMX is disabled

|`JndiRegistry createRegistry()` |Provides a hook for adding objects
into the registry.  Override this method to bind objects to the registry
before test methods are invoked. |An empty registry is initialized

|`useOverridePropertiesWithPropertiesComponent` |*Camel 2.10:* Allows to
add/override properties when link:using-propertyplaceholder.html[Using
PropertyPlaceholder] in Camel. |*`null`*

|`ignoreMissingLocationWithPropertiesComponent` |*Camel 2.10:* Allows to
control if Camel should ignore missing locations for properties.
|*`null`*

|`boolean isDumpRouteCoverage` |*Camel 2.16:* If enabled, then Camel
will dump all route coverage statistics into XML files in the
target/camel-route-coverage directory. These XML files contains
information about "route coverage" of all the routes that was used
during the unit test. This allows tooling to inspect these XML files and
generate nice route coverage reports. |Disabled
|=======================================================================

[[CamelTest-JNDI]]
JNDI
^^^^

Camel uses a link:registry.html[Registry] to allow you to configure
link:component.html[Component] or link:endpoint.html[Endpoint] instances
or link:bean-integration.html[Beans used in your routes]. If you are not
using link:spring.html[Spring] or
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/pages/createpage.action?spaceKey=CAMEL&title=OSGi&linkCreation=true&fromPageId=104074[OSGi]
then link:jndi.html[JNDI] is used as the default registry
implementation.

So you will also need to create a *`jndi.properties`* file in
your *`src/test/resources`* directory so that there is a default
registry available to initialize the
link:camelcontext.html[CamelContext].

Here is
http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/camel/trunk/components/camel-test/src/test/resources/jndi.properties[an
example jndi.properties file]

java.naming.factory.initial =
org.apache.camel.util.jndi.CamelInitialContextFactory

[[CamelTest-DynamicallyAssigningPorts]]
Dynamically Assigning Ports
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.7*

Tests that use port numbers will fail if that port is already on use.
*`AvailablePortFinder`* provides methods for finding unused port numbers
at run time.

java// Get the next available port number starting from the default
starting port of 1024 int port1 =
AvailablePortFinder.getNextAvailable(); /* * Get another port. Note that
just getting a port number does not reserve it so * we look starting one
past the last port number we got. */ int port2 =
AvailablePortFinder.getNextAvailable(port1 + 1);

[[CamelTest-SetupCamelContextonceperclass,orpereverytestmethod]]
Setup CamelContext once per class, or per every test method
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.8*

The link:camel-test.html[Camel Test] kit will by default setup and
shutdown link:camelcontext.html[CamelContext] per every test method in
your test class. So for example if you have 3 test methods, then
link:camelcontext.html[CamelContext] is started and shutdown after each
test, that is 3 times.

TestNG

This feature is also supported in *`camel-testng`*

Beware

When using this the link:camelcontext.html[CamelContext] will keep state
between tests, so have that in mind. So if your unit tests start to fail
for no apparent reason, it could be due this fact. So use this feature
with a bit of care.

You may want to do this once, to share the
link:camelcontext.html[CamelContext] between test methods, to speedup
unit testing. This requires the use of JUnit 4! In your unit test method
you have to extend the *`org.apache.camel.test.junit4.CamelTestSupport`*
or the *`org.apache.camel.test.junit4.CamelSpringTestSupport`* test
class and override the *`isCreateCamelContextPerClass`* method and
return `true` as shown in the following
example:\{snippet:id=example|lang=java|title=Setup CamelContext once per
class|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-test/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/test/patterns/FilterCreateCamelContextPerClassTest.java}

[[CamelTest-SeeAlso]]
See Also
^^^^^^^^

* link:testing.html[Testing]
* link:mock.html[Mock]
* link:test.html[Test]

 
