[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[Context-ContextComponent]]
Context Component
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*Available as of Camel 2.7*

[Warning]
====


Deprecated do NOT use

====

Â 

The *context* component allows you to create new Camel Components from a
CamelContext with a number of routes which is then treated as a black
box, allowing you to refer to the local endpoints within the component
from other CamelContexts.

It is similar to the link:routebox.html[Routebox] component in idea,
though the Context component tries to be really simple for end users;
just a simple convention over configuration approach to refer to local
endpoints inside the CamelContext Component.

Maven users will need to add the following dependency to their `pom.xml`
for this component:

[source,brush:,java;,gutter:,false;,theme:,Default]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId>
    <artifactId>camel-context</artifactId>
    <version>x.x.x</version>
    <!-- use the same version as your Camel core version -->
</dependency>
----

[[Context-URIformat]]
URI format
^^^^^^^^^^

[source,brush:,java;,gutter:,false;,theme:,Default]
----
context:camelContextId:localEndpointName[?options]
----

Or you can omit the "context:" prefix.

[source,brush:,java;,gutter:,false;,theme:,Default]
----
camelContextId:localEndpointName[?options]
----

* *camelContextId* is the ID you used to register the CamelContext into
the link:registry.html[Registry].
* *localEndpointName* can be a valid Camel URI evaluated within the
black box CamelContext. Or it can be a logical name which is mapped to
any local endpoints. For example if you locally have endpoints like
*direct:invoices* and *seda:purchaseOrders* inside a CamelContext of id
*supplyChain*, then you can just use the URIs *supplyChain:invoices* or
*supplyChain:purchaseOrders* to omit the physical endpoint kind and use
pure logical URIs.

You can append query options to the URI in the following format,
`?option=value&option=value&...`

[[Context-Example]]
Example
^^^^^^^

In this example we'll create a black box context, then we'll use it from
another CamelContext.

[[Context-Definingthecontextcomponent]]
Defining the context component
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

First you need to create a CamelContext, add some routes in it, start it
and then register the CamelContext into the link:registry.html[Registry]
(JNDI, Spring, Guice or OSGi etc).

This can be done in the usual Camel way from this
http://svn.apache.org/viewvc/camel/trunk/components/camel-context/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/context/JavaDslBlackBoxTest.java?revision=1069442&view=markup[test
case] (see the createRegistry() method); this example shows Java and
JNDI being used...

[source,brush:,java;,gutter:,false;,theme:,Default]
----
// lets create our black box as a camel context and a set of routes
DefaultCamelContext blackBox = new DefaultCamelContext(registry);
blackBox.setName("blackBox");
blackBox.addRoutes(new RouteBuilder() {
    @Override
    public void configure() throws Exception {
        // receive purchase orders, lets process it in some way then send an invoice
        // to our invoice endpoint
        from("direct:purchaseOrder").
          setHeader("received").constant("true").
          to("direct:invoice");
    }
});
blackBox.start();

registry.bind("accounts", blackBox);
----

Notice in the above route we are using pure local endpoints (*direct*
and *seda*). Also note we expose this CamelContext using the *accounts*
ID. We can do the same thing in Spring via

[source,brush:,java;,gutter:,false;,theme:,Default]
----
<camelContext id="accounts" xmlns="http://camel.apache.org/schema/spring">
  <route> 
    <from uri="direct:purchaseOrder"/>
    ...
    <to uri="direct:invoice"/>
  </route>
</camelContext>
----

[[Context-Usingthecontextcomponent]]
Using the context component
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Then in another CamelContext we can then refer to this "accounts black
box" by just sending to *accounts:purchaseOrder* and consuming from
*accounts:invoice*.

If you prefer to be more verbose and explicit you could use
*context:accounts:purchaseOrder* or even
*context:accounts:direct://purchaseOrder* if you prefer. But using
logical endpoint URIs is preferred as it hides the implementation detail
and provides a simple logical naming scheme.

For example if we wish to then expose this accounts black box on some
middleware (outside of the black box) we can do things like...

[source,brush:,java;,gutter:,false;,theme:,Default]
----
<camelContext xmlns="http://camel.apache.org/schema/spring">
  <route> 
    <!-- consume from an ActiveMQ into the black box -->
    <from uri="activemq:Accounts.PurchaseOrders"/>
    <to uri="accounts:purchaseOrders"/>
  </route>
  <route> 
    <!-- lets send invoices from the black box to a different ActiveMQ Queue -->
    <from uri="accounts:invoice"/>
    <to uri="activemq:UK.Accounts.Invoices"/>
  </route>
</camelContext>
----

[[Context-Namingendpoints]]
Naming endpoints
++++++++++++++++

A context component instance can have many public input and output
endpoints that can be accessed from outside it's CamelContext. When
there are many it is recommended that you use logical names for them to
hide the middleware as shown above.

However when there is only one input, output or error/dead letter
endpoint in a component we recommend using the common posix shell names
*in*, *out* and *err*
