[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[CXFBeanComponent-CXFBeanComponent]]
CXF Bean Component
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The *cxfbean:* component allows other Camel endpoints to send exchange
and invoke Web service bean objects. *Currently, it only supports JAX-RS
and JAX-WS (new to Camel 2.1) annotated service beans.*

`CxfBeanEndpoint` is a `ProcessorEndpoint` so it has no consumers. It
works similarly to a Bean component.

Maven users need to add the following dependency to their pom.xml to use
the CXF Bean Component:

xml<dependency> <groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId>
<artifactId>camel-cxf</artifactId> <!-- use the same version as your
Camel core version: --> <version>x.x.x</version> </dependency>

[[CXFBeanComponent-URIformat]]
URI format
^^^^^^^^^^

cxfbean:serviceBeanRef

Where *serviceBeanRef* is a registry key to look up the service bean
object. If `serviceBeanRef` references a `List` object, elements of the
`List` are the service bean objects accepted by the endpoint.

[[CXFBeanComponent-Options]]
Options
^^^^^^^

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="20%,20%,20%,20%,20%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Name |Description |Example |Required? |Default Value
|`bus` |CXF bus reference specified by the `#` notation. The referenced
object must be an instance of `org.apache.cxf.Bus`. |`bus=#busName` |No
|Default bus created by CXF Bus Factory

|`cxfBeanBinding` |CXF bean binding specified by the `#` notation. The
referenced object must be an instance of
`org.apache.camel.component.cxf.cxfbean.CxfBeanBinding`.
|`cxfBinding=#bindingName` |No |`DefaultCxfBeanBinding`

|`headerFilterStrategy` |Header filter strategy specified by the `#`
notation. The referenced object must be an instance of
`org.apache.camel.spi.HeaderFilterStrategy`.
|`headerFilterStrategy=#strategyName` |No |`CxfHeaderFilterStrategy`

|`populateFromClass` + |Since 2.3, the wsdlLocation annotated in the
POJO is ignored (by default) unless this option is set to  `false.`
Prior to 2.3, the wsdlLocation annotated in the POJO is always honored
and it is not possible to ignore. + |`true`, `false` |No |`true`

|`providers` |Since 2.5, setting the providers for the CXFRS endpoint.
|`providers=#providerRef1,#providerRef2` |No |`null`

|`setDefaultBus` |Will set the default bus when CXF endpoint create a
bus by itself. |`true`, `false` |No |`false`
|=======================================================================

[[CXFBeanComponent-Headers]]
Headers
^^^^^^^

confluenceTableSmall

[width="99%",cols="16%,14%,14%,14%,14%,14%,14%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Name |Description |Type |Required? |Default Value |In/Out |Examples
|`CamelHttpCharacterEncoding` (before 2.0-m2:
`CamelCxfBeanCharacterEncoding`) |Character encoding |`String` |No |None
|In |ISO-8859-1

|`CamelContentType` (before 2.0-m2: `CamelCxfBeanContentType`) |Content
type |`String` |No |**/** |In |`text/xml`

|CamelHttpBaseUri +
(2.0-m3 and before: `CamelCxfBeanRequestBasePath`) |The value of this
header will be set in the CXF message as the `Message.BASE_PATH`
property. It is needed by CXF JAX-RS processing. Basically, it is the
scheme, host and port portion of the request URI. |`String` |Yes |The
Endpoint URI of the source endpoint in the Camel exchange |In
|http://localhost:9000

|`CamelHttpPath` (before 2.0-m2: `CamelCxfBeanRequestPat`h) |Request
URI's path |`String` |Yes |None |In |`consumer/123`

|`CamelHttpMethod` (before 2.0-m2: `CamelCxfBeanVerb`) |RESTful request
verb |`String` |Yes |None |In |`GET`, `PUT`, `POST`, `DELETE`

|`CamelHttpResponseCode` |HTTP response code |`Integer` |No + |None
|Out + |200 +
|=======================================================================

Currently, the CXF Bean component has (only) been tested with the
link:jetty.html[Jetty component]. It understands headers from
link:jetty.html[Jetty component] without requiring conversion.

[[CXFBeanComponent-AWorkingSample]]
A Working Sample
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This sample shows how to create a route that starts an embedded Jetty
HTTP server. The route sends requests to a CXF Bean and invokes a JAX-RS
annotated service.

First, create a route as follows: The `from` endpoint is a Jetty HTTP
endpoint that is listening on port 9000. Notice that the
`matchOnUriPrefix` option must be set to `true` because the RESTful
request URI will not exactly match the endpoint's URI
http:­//localhost:9000.

\{snippet:id=routeDefinition|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-cxf/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/component/cxf/cxfbean/CxfBeanTest-context.xml}

The `to` endpoint is a CXF Bean with bean name `customerServiceBean`.
The name will be looked up from the registry. Next, we make sure our
service bean is available in Spring registry. We create a bean
definition in the Spring configuration. In this example, we create a
List of service beans (of one element). We could have created just a
single bean without a List.

\{snippet:id=beanDefinition|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-cxf/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/component/cxf/cxfbean/CxfBeanTest-context.xml}

That's it. Once the route is started, the web service is ready for
business. A HTTP client can make a request and receive response.
