[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[CXFExample-CXFExample]]
CXF Example
-----------

[[CXFExample-CXFexampleforroutingmessageswithdifferenttransports]]
CXF example for routing messages with different transports
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The
http://svn.apache.org/viewvc/camel/trunk/examples/camel-example-cxf/src/main/java/org/apache/camel/example/cxf/httptojms/CamelCxfExample.java?view=markup[Camel
CXF example] is a demo of the camel-cxf component to show how to route
messages between CXF endpoints, with one endpoint consuming a SOAP over
HTTP request while the other providing a SOAP over JMS request for the
actual CXF Service endpoint. The Camel router just routes the SOAP over
HTTP CXF client request to the SOAP over JMS CXF service.

To run the example see instructions in the `README.txt` file in the
`camel-example-cxf` directory under `examples`.

We start with creating a link:camelcontext.html[CamelContext] - which is
a container for link:components.html[Components],
link:routes.html[Routes] etc:

\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/examples/camel-example-cxf/src/main/java/org/apache/camel/example/cxf/httptojms/CamelCxfExample.java}

Here is code for starting the JMS broker and the CXF server:

\{snippet:id=e2|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/examples/camel-example-cxf/src/main/java/org/apache/camel/example/cxf/httptojms/CamelCxfExample.java}

Now we setup the router for the two endpoint URIs which we mentioned
before, ROUTER_ENDPOINT_URI is the endpoint for consuming the request of
SOAP over HTTP, SERVICE_ENDPOINT_URI is the endpoint for providing the
request for the SOAP over JMS service.

\{snippet:id=e3|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/examples/camel-example-cxf/src/main/java/org/apache/camel/example/cxf/httptojms/CamelCxfExample.java}\{snippet:id=e4|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/examples/camel-example-cxf/src/main/java/org/apache/camel/example/cxf/httptojms/CamelCxfExample.java}

Then we start up the camel context and create the CXF client to kick off
the request.

[[CXFExample-CXFexampleforusingCameltransport]]
CXF example for using Camel transport
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Since Camel has lots of components and is a great mediation rule engine,
we can leverage these Camel features in CXF by using the Camel
transport. Here is an example to show how to use the Camel transport in
CXF.

In this example, we setup a load balancing Camel context in the Camel
destination.

\{snippet:id=example|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/examples/camel-example-cxf/src/main/resources/org/apache/camel/example/camel/transport/CamelDestination.xml}

When CXF loads this configuration, it will publish the CXF endpoint to
the Camel endpoint that is found in the Camel context.

\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/examples/camel-example-cxf/src/main/java/org/apache/camel/example/camel/transport/Server.java}

The code below shows how to publish the endpoint to different Camel
context endpoints. You can specify the Camel endpoint URI as the
endpoint address parameter.

\{snippet:id=e2|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/examples/camel-example-cxf/src/main/java/org/apache/camel/example/camel/transport/Server.java}

[[CXFExample-CXFexampleforusingtheWebServiceProviderAPI]]
CXF example for using the WebServiceProvider API
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

JAX-WS provides the WebServiceProvider API to meet the requirements of
XML-level message handling. This example shows how to route a SOAP
Message from a WebServiceProvider implementation to bean endpoint in the
Camel context. Basically, we still pass the WebServiceProvider
implementor as SEI, and the CxfConsumer will pass the SOAP Message in a
list of parameters to the Camel router for further processing.

First, let's have a look at the Camel context's configuration. Here we
start a CxfConsumer to listen to the address and pass SOAP messages to
the test bean.

\{snippet:id=example|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/examples/camel-example-cxf/src/main/resources/META-INF/spring/CamelCXFProviderRouteConfig.xml}

Below is the WebServiceProvider implementor's annotation. In this code,
we just want to handle SOAPMessages in the Message mode:

\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/examples/camel-example-cxf/src/main/java/org/apache/camel/example/cxf/provider/GreeterProvider.java}

Since the CXF-Camel component will replace the CXF invoker to call the
processor when starting a CXF endpoint, the CXF-Camel consumer will
never call the provider implementor's invoke method here.

\{snippet:id=e2|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/examples/camel-example-cxf/src/main/java/org/apache/camel/example/cxf/provider/GreeterProvider.java}

Now we can implement the bean for handling the invocation of the SOAP
message:

\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/examples/camel-example-cxf/src/main/java/org/apache/camel/example/cxf/provider/TesterBean.java}
