[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[CXFRS-CXFRSComponent]]
CXFRS Component
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When using CXF as a consumer, the link:cxf-bean-component.html[CXF Bean
Component] allows you to factor out how message payloads are received
from their processing as a RESTful or SOAP web service. This has the
potential of using a multitude of transports to consume web services.
The bean component's configuration is also simpler and provides the
fastest method to implement web services using Camel and CXF.

The *cxfrs:* component provides integration with
http://cxf.apache.org[Apache CXF] for connecting to JAX-RS 1.1 and 2.0
services hosted in CXF.

Maven users will need to add the following dependency to their pom.xml
for this component:

xml<dependency> <groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId>
<artifactId>camel-cxf</artifactId> <version>x.x.x</version> <!-- use the
same version as your Camel core version --> </dependency>

[[CXFRS-URIformat]]
URI format
^^^^^^^^^^

javacxfrs://address?options

Where *address* represents the CXF endpoint's address

javacxfrs:bean:rsEndpoint

Where *rsEndpoint* represents the spring bean's name which presents the
CXFRS client or server

For either style above, you can append options to the URI as follows:

javacxfrs:bean:cxfEndpoint?resourceClasses=org.apache.camel.rs.Example

[[CXFRS-Options]]
Options
^^^^^^^

[width="100%",cols="20%,20%,20%,20%,20%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Name |Description |Example |Required? |default value
|`resourceClasses` |The resource classes which you want to export as
REST service. Multiple classes can be separated by comma.
|`resourceClasses=org.apache.camel.rs.Example1,` +
`org.apache.camel.rs.Exchange2` |No |_None_

|`resourceClass` |*Deprecated*: Use `resourceClasses` The resource class
which you want to export as REST service.
|`resourceClass =org.apache.camel.rs.Example1` |No |_None_

|`httpClientAPI` |*new to Camel 2.1* If it is true, the CxfRsProducer
will use the HttpClientAPI to invoke the service +
If it is false, the CxfRsProducer will use the ProxyClientAPI to invoke
the service |httpClientAPI=true |No |_true_

|`synchronous` a|
This option will let you decide to use sync or async API to do the
underlying work. The default value is false which means it will try to
use async API by default.

This option is available as of *2.5* for CxfRsConsumer and as of *2.19*
for CxfRsProducer.

 |synchronous=true |No |false

|`throwExceptionOnFailure` |New in 2.6, this option tells the
CxfRsProducer to inspect return codes and will generate an Exception if
the return code is larger than 207. |throwExceptionOnFailure=true |No
|true

|`maxClientCacheSize` |New in 2.6, you can set a IN message header
CamelDestinationOverrideUrl to dynamically override the target
destination Web Service or REST Service defined in your routes.  The
implementation caches CXF clients or ClientFactoryBean in CxfProvider
and CxfRsProvider.  This option allows you to configure the maximum size
of the cache. |maxClientCacheSize=5 |No |10

|`setDefaultBus` |New in 2.9.0. *deprecated* use defaultBus option from
Camel 2.16 onwards. Will set the default bus when CXF endpoint create a
bus by itself |`setDefaultBus=true` |No |_false_

|`defaultBus` |*Camel 2.16:* Will set the default bus when CXF endpoint
create a bus by itself |`defaultBus=true` |No |_false_

|`bus` |New in 2.9.0. A default bus created by CXF Bus Factory. Use `#`
notation to reference a bus object from the registry. The referenced
object must be an instance of `org.apache.cxf.Bus`. |`bus=#busName` |No
|_None_

|`bindingStyle` a|
*As of 2.11*. Sets how requests and responses will be mapped to/from
Camel. Two values are possible:

* `SimpleConsumer` => see the link:cxfrs.html[Consuming a REST Request
with the Simple Binding Style] below.
* `Default` => the default style. For consumers this passes on a
`MessageContentsList` to the route, requiring low-level processing in
the route.
* Custom => allows you to specify a custom binding through the `binding`
option.

 |`bindingStyle=SimpleConsumer` |No |_Default_

|`binding` |Allows you to specify a custom `CxfRsBinding` implementation
to perform low-level processing of the raw CXF request and response
objects. The implementation must be bound in the Camel registry, and you
must use the hash (#) notation to refer to it. |`binding=#myBinding` |No
|`DefaultCxfRsBinding`

|`providers` |**Since Camel 2.12.2** set custom JAX-RS providers list to
the CxfRs endpoint. |`providers=#MyProviders` |No |_None_

|`schemaLocations` |**Since Camel 2.12.2** Sets the locations of the
schemas which can be used to validate the incoming XML or JAXB-driven
JSON. |`schemaLocations=#MySchemaLocations` |No |_None_

|`features` |**Since Camel 2.12.3** Set the feature list to the CxfRs
endpoint. |`features=#MyFeatures` |No |_None_

|`properties` |**Since Camel 2.12.4** Set the properties to the CxfRs
endpoint. |`properties=#MyProperties` |No |_None_

|`inInterceptors` |**Since Camel 2.12.4** Set the inInterceptors to the
CxfRs endpoint. |`inInterceptors=#MyInterceptors` |No |_None_

|`outInterceptors` |**Since Camel 2.12.4** Set the outInterceptor to the
CxfRs endpoint. |`outInterceptors=#MyInterceptors` |No |_None_

|`inFaultInterceptors` |**Since Camel 2.12.4** Set the
inFaultInterceptors to the CxfRs endpoint.
|`inFaultInterceptors=#MyInterceptors` |No |_None_

|`outFaultIntercetpros` |**Since Camel 2.12.4** Set the
outFaultInterceptors to the CxfRs endpoint.
|`outFaultInterceptors=#MyInterceptors` |No |_None_

|`continuationTimeout` |*Since* **Camel 2.14.0 **This option is used to
set the CXF continuation timeout which could be used in CxfConsumer by
default when the CXF server is using Jetty or Servlet transport.
(Before **Camel 2.14.0**, CxfConsumer just set the continuation timeout
to be 0, which means the continuation suspend operation never timeout.)
|`continuationTimeout=800000` |No |_30000_

|`ignoreDeleteMethodMessageBody` |*Since Camel 2.14.1* This option is
used to tell CxfRsProducer to ignore the message body of the DELETE
method when using HTTP API. |`ignoreDeleteMethodMessageBody=true` |No
|_false_

|`modelRef` a|
*Since Camel 2.14.2* This option is used to specify the
http://cxf.apache.org/docs/jax-rs-advanced-features.html#JAX-RSAdvancedFeatures-RESTfulserviceswithoutannotations[model
file] which is useful for the resource class without annotation.

*Since Camel 2.15* This option can point to a model file without
specifying a service class for emulating document-only endpoints


|`modelRef=`http://classpath/org/apache/camel/component/cxf/jaxrs/CustomerServiceModel.xml[classpath:/CustomerServiceModel.xml]
|No |_None_

|`performInvocation` |*Since Camel 2.15* When the option is true, camel
will perform the invocation of the resource class instance and put the
response object into the exchange for further processing.
|`performInvocation= true` |No |_false_

|`propagateContexts` |*Since Camel 2.15* When the option is true, JAXRS
https://jax-rs-spec.java.net/nonav/2.0-rev-a/apidocs/javax/ws/rs/core/UriInfo.html[UriInfo],
https://jax-rs-spec.java.net/nonav/2.0-rev-a/apidocs/javax/ws/rs/core/HttpHeaders.html[HttpHeaders],
https://jax-rs-spec.java.net/nonav/2.0-rev-a/apidocs/javax/ws/rs/core/Request.html[Request]
and
https://jax-rs-spec.java.net/nonav/2.0-rev-a/apidocs/javax/ws/rs/core/SecurityContext.html[SecurityContext]
contexts will be available to custom CXFRS processors as typed Camel
exchange properties. These contexts can be used to analyze the current
requests using JAX-RS API. |  |  | 

|`loggingFeatureEnabled` |This option enables CXF Logging Feature which
writes inbound and outbound REST messages to log. |  |No |_false_

|`skipFaultLogging` |This option controls whether the
`PhaseInterceptorChain` skips logging the Fault that it catches. |  |No
|_false_

|`loggingSizeLimit` |To limit the total size of number of bytes the
logger will output when logging feature has been enabled. |  |No |`0`

|`cookieHandler` |Since *Camel 2.19.0* Configure a cookie handler to
maintain a HTTP session |`cookieHandler=#exchangeCookieHandler` |No
|_None_
|=======================================================================

You can also configure the CXF REST endpoint through the spring
configuration. Since there are lots of difference between the CXF REST
client and CXF REST Server, we provide different configuration for
them. +
Please check out the
http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/camel/trunk/components/camel-cxf/src/main/resources/schema/cxfEndpoint.xsd[schema
file] and https://cwiki.apache.org/CXF20DOC/JAX-RS[CXF JAX-RS
documentation] for more information.

[[CXFRS-HowtoconfiguretheRESTendpointinCamel]]
How to configure the REST endpoint in Camel
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In
http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/camel/trunk/components/camel-cxf/src/main/resources/schema/cxfEndpoint.xsd[camel-cxf
schema file], there are two elements for the REST endpoint definition.
*cxf:rsServer* for REST consumer, *cxf:rsClient* for REST producer. +
You can find a Camel REST service route configuration example
here.\{snippet:id=cxfRsExample|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-cxf/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/component/cxf/jaxrs/CxfRsSpringRouter.xml}

[[CXFRS-HowtooverridetheCXFproduceraddressfrommessageheader]]
How to override the CXF producer address from message header
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The `camel-cxfrs` producer supports to override the services address by
setting the message with the key of "CamelDestinationOverrideUrl".

// set up the service address from the message header to override the
setting of CXF endpoint
exchange.getIn().setHeader(Exchange.DESTINATION_OVERRIDE_URL,
constant(getServiceAddress()));

[[CXFRS-ConsumingaRESTRequest-SimpleBindingStyle]]
Consuming a REST Request - Simple Binding Style
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.11*

The `Default` binding style is rather low-level, requiring the user to
manually process the `MessageContentsList` object coming into the route.
Thus, it tightly couples the route logic with the method signature and
parameter indices of the JAX-RS operation. Somewhat inelegant, difficult
and error-prone.

In contrast, the `SimpleConsumer` binding style performs the following
mappings, in order to *make the request data more accessible* to you
within the Camel Message:

* JAX-RS Parameters (@HeaderParam, @QueryParam, etc.) are injected as IN
message headers. The header name matches the value of the annotation.
* The request entity (POJO or other type) becomes the IN message body.
If a single entity cannot be identified in the JAX-RS method signature,
it falls back to the original `MessageContentsList`.
* Binary `@Multipart` body parts become IN message attachments,
supporting `DataHandler`, `InputStream`, `DataSource` and CXF's
`Attachment` class.
* Non-binary `@Multipart` body parts are mapped as IN message headers.
The header name matches the Body Part name.

Additionally, the following rules apply to the *Response mapping*:

* If the message body type is different to `javax.ws.rs.core.Response`
(user-built response), a new `Response` is created and the message body
is set as the entity (so long it's not null). The response status code
is taken from the `Exchange.HTTP_RESPONSE_CODE` header, or defaults to
200 OK if not present.
* If the message body type is equal to `javax.ws.rs.core.Response`, it
means that the user has built a custom response, and therefore it is
respected and it becomes the final response.
* In all cases, Camel headers permitted by custom or default
`HeaderFilterStrategy` are added to the HTTP response.

[[CXFRS-EnablingtheSimpleBindingStyle]]
Enabling the Simple Binding Style
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

This binding style can be activated by setting the `bindingStyle`
parameter in the consumer endpoint to value `SimpleConsumer`:

java from("cxfrs:bean:rsServer?bindingStyle=SimpleConsumer")
.to("log:TEST?showAll=true");

[[CXFRS-Examplesofrequestbindingwithdifferentmethodsignatures]]
Examples of request binding with different method signatures
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Below is a list of method signatures along with the expected result from
the Simple binding.

*`public Response doAction(BusinessObject request);`* +
Request payload is placed in IN message body, replacing the original
MessageContentsList.

*`public Response doAction(BusinessObject request, @HeaderParam("abcd") String abcd, @QueryParam("defg") String defg);`* +
Request payload placed in IN message body, replacing the original
MessageContentsList. Both request params mapped as IN message headers
with names abcd and defg.

*`public Response doAction(@HeaderParam("abcd") String abcd, @QueryParam("defg") String defg);`* +
Both request params mapped as IN message headers with names abcd and
defg. The original MessageContentsList is preserved, even though it only
contains the 2 parameters.

*`public Response doAction(@Multipart(value="body1") BusinessObject request, @Multipart(value="body2") BusinessObject request2);`* +
The first parameter is transferred as a header with name body1, and the
second one is mapped as header body2. The original MessageContentsList
is preserved as the IN message body.

*`public Response doAction(InputStream abcd);`* +
The InputStream is unwrapped from the MessageContentsList and preserved
as the IN message body.

*`public Response doAction(DataHandler abcd);`* +
The DataHandler is unwrapped from the MessageContentsList and preserved
as the IN message body.

[[CXFRS-MoreexamplesoftheSimpleBindingStyle]]
More examples of the Simple Binding Style
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Given a JAX-RS resource class with this method:

java @POST @Path("/customers/\{type}") public Response
newCustomer(Customer customer, @PathParam("type") String type,
@QueryParam("active") @DefaultValue("true") boolean active) \{ return
null; }

Serviced by the following route:

java from("cxfrs:bean:rsServer?bindingStyle=SimpleConsumer")
.recipientList(simple("direct:$\{header.operationName}"));
from("direct:newCustomer") .log("Request: type=$\{header.type},
active=$\{header.active}, customerData=$\{body}");

The following HTTP request with XML payload (given that the Customer DTO
is JAXB-annotated):

xmlPOST /customers/gold?active=true Payload: <Customer> <fullName>Raul
Kripalani</fullName> <country>Spain</country> <project>Apache
Camel</project> </Customer>

Will print the message:

xmlRequest: type=gold, active=true, customerData=<Customer.toString()
representation>

For more examples on how to process requests and write responses can be
found
https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/camel/trunk/components/camel-cxf/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/cxf/jaxrs/simplebinding/[here].

[[CXFRS-ConsumingaRESTRequest-DefaultBindingStyle]]
Consuming a REST Request - Default Binding Style
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The https://cwiki.apache.org/CXF20DOC/JAX-RS[CXF JAXRS front end]
implements the https://jsr311.java.net/[JAX-RS (JSR-311) API], so we can
export the resources classes as a REST service. And we leverage the
http://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CXF20DOC/Invokers[CXF Invoker
API] to turn a REST request into a normal Java object method
invocation. +
Unlike the link:restlet.html[Camel Restlet] component, you don't need to
specify the URI template within your endpoint, CXF takes care of the
REST request URI to resource class method mapping according to the
JSR-311 specification. All you need to do in Camel is delegate this
method request to a right processor or endpoint.

Here is an example of a CXFRS
route...\{snippet:id=example|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-cxf/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/cxf/jaxrs/CxfRsConsumerTest.java}And
the corresponding resource class used to configure the endpoint...

Note about resource classes

By default, JAX-RS resource classes are *only* used to configure JAX-RS
properties. Methods will *not* be executed during routing of messages to
the endpoint. Instead, it is the responsibility of the route to do all
processing.

Note that starting from Camel 2.15 it is also sufficient to provide an
interface only as opposed to a no-op service implementation class for
the default mode.

Starting from Camel 2.15, if a *performInvocation* option is enabled,
the service implementation will be invoked first, the response will be
set on the Camel exchange and the route execution will continue as
usual. This can be useful for

integrating the existing JAX-RS implementations into Camel routes and
for post-processing JAX-RS Responses in custom processors.

 

\{snippet:id=example|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-cxf/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/cxf/jaxrs/testbean/CustomerServiceResource.java}

[[CXFRS-HowtoinvoketheRESTservicethroughcamel-cxfrsproducer]]
How to invoke the REST service through camel-cxfrs producer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The https://cwiki.apache.org/CXF20DOC/JAX-RS[CXF JAXRS front end]
implements
https://cwiki.apache.org/CXF20DOC/JAX-RS+Client+API#JAX-RSClientAPI-Proxy-basedAPI[a
proxy-based client API], with this API you can invoke the remote REST
service through a proxy. The `camel-cxfrs` producer is based on this
https://cwiki.apache.org/CXF20DOC/JAX-RS+Client+API#JAX-RSClientAPI-Proxy-basedAPI[proxy
API]. +
You just need to specify the operation name in the message header and
prepare the parameter in the message body, the camel-cxfrs producer will
generate right REST request for you.

Here is an
example:\{snippet:id=ProxyExample|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-cxf/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/cxf/jaxrs/CxfRsProducerTest.java}The https://cwiki.apache.org/CXF20DOC/JAX-RS[CXF
JAXRS front end] also provides
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CXF20DOC/JAX-RS+Client+API#JAX-RSClientAPI-CXFWebClientAPI[a
http centric client API]. You can also invoke this API from
`camel-cxfrs` producer. You need to specify the
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/Exchange.html#HTTP_PATH[HTTP_PATH]
and
the http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/Exchange.html#HTTP_METHOD[HTTP_METHOD] and
let the producer use the http centric client API by using the URI option
*httpClientAPI* or by setting the message header
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-cxf/apidocs/org/apache/camel/component/cxf/CxfConstants.html#CAMEL_CXF_RS_USING_HTTP_API[CxfConstants.CAMEL_CXF_RS_USING_HTTP_API].
You can turn the response object to the type class specified with the
message
header http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-cxf/apidocs/org/apache/camel/component/cxf/CxfConstants.html#CAMEL_CXF_RS_RESPONSE_CLASS[CxfConstants.CAMEL_CXF_RS_RESPONSE_CLASS].\{snippet:id=HttpExample|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-cxf/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/cxf/jaxrs/CxfRsProducerTest.java}From
Camel 2.1, we also support to specify the query parameters from cxfrs
URI for the CXFRS http centric
client.\{snippet:id=QueryExample|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-cxf/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/cxf/jaxrs/CxfRsProducerTest.java}To
support the Dynamical routing, you can override the URI's query
parameters by using the CxfConstants.CAMEL_CXF_RS_QUERY_MAP header to
set the parameter map for
it.\{snippet:id=QueryMapExample|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-cxf/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/cxf/jaxrs/CxfRsProducerTest.java}
