[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[DynamicRouter-DynamicRouter]]
Dynamic Router
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/DynamicRouter.html[Dynamic
Router] from the link:enterprise-integration-patterns.html[EIP patterns]
allows you to route messages while avoiding the dependency of the router
on all possible destinations while maintaining its efficiency.

image:http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/img/DynamicRouter.gif[image]

In *Camel 2.5* we introduced a `dynamicRouter` in the DSL which is like
a dynamic link:routing-slip.html[Routing Slip] which evaluates the slip
_on-the-fly_.

Beware

You must ensure the expression used for the `dynamicRouter` such as a
bean, will return `null` to indicate the end. Otherwise the
`dynamicRouter` will keep repeating endlessly.

[[DynamicRouter-Options]]
Options
^^^^^^^

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Name |Default Value |Description
|`uriDelimiter` |`,` |Delimiter used if the
link:expression.html[Expression] returned multiple endpoints.

|`ignoreInvalidEndpoints` |`false` |If an endpoint uri could not be
resolved, should it be ignored. Otherwise Camel will thrown an exception
stating the endpoint uri is not valid.

|`cacheSize` |`1000` |*Camel 2.13.1/2.12.4:* Allows to configure the
cache size for the `ProducerCache` which caches producers for reuse in
the routing slip. Will by default use the default cache size which is
1000. Setting the value to -1 allows to turn off the cache all together.
|=======================================================================

[[DynamicRouter-DynamicRouterinCamel2.5onwards]]
Dynamic Router in Camel 2.5 onwards
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

From Camel 2.5 the link:dynamic-router.html[Dynamic Router] will set a
property (Exchange.SLIP_ENDPOINT) on the link:exchange.html[Exchange]
which contains the current endpoint as it advanced though the slip. This
allows you to know how far we have processed in the slip. (It's a slip
because the link:dynamic-router.html[Dynamic Router] implementation is
based on top of link:routing-slip.html[Routing Slip]).

[[DynamicRouter-JavaDSL]]
Java DSL
++++++++

In Java DSL you can use the `dynamicRouter` as shown below:

\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/DynamicRouterTest.java}

Which will leverage a link:bean.html[Bean] to compute the slip
_on-the-fly_, which could be implemented as follows:

\{snippet:id=e2|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/DynamicRouterTest.java}

Mind that this example is only for show and tell. The current
implementation is not thread safe. You would have to store the state on
the link:exchange.html[Exchange], to ensure thread safety, as shown
below:

\{snippet:id=e2|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/DynamicRouterExchangePropertiesTest.java}

You could also store state as message headers, but they are not
guaranteed to be preserved during routing, where as properties on the
link:exchange.html[Exchange] are. Although there was a bug in the method
call expression, see the warning below.

Using beans to store state

Mind that in Camel 2.9.2 or older, when using a link:bean.html[Bean] the
state is not propagated, so you will have to use a
link:processor.html[Processor] instead. This is fixed in Camel 2.9.3
onwards.

[[DynamicRouter-SpringXML]]
Spring XML
++++++++++

The same example in Spring XML would be:

\{snippet:id=e1|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-spring/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/spring/processor/SpringDynamicRouterTest.xml}

[[DynamicRouter-@DynamicRouterannotation]]
@DynamicRouter annotation
+++++++++++++++++++++++++

You can also use the `@DynamicRouter` annotation, for example the Camel
2.4 example below could be written as follows. The `route` method would
then be invoked repeatedly as the message is processed dynamically. The
idea is to return the next endpoint uri where to go. Return `null` to
indicate the end. You can return multiple endpoints if you like, just as
the link:routing-slip.html[Routing Slip], where each endpoint is
separated by a delimiter.

javapublic class MyDynamicRouter \{ @Consume(uri = "activemq:foo")
@DynamicRouter public String route(@XPath("/customer/id") String
customerId, @Header("Location") String location, Document body) \{ //
query a database to find the best match of the endpoint based on the
input parameteres // return the next endpoint uri, where to go. Return
null to indicate the end. } }

[[DynamicRouter-DynamicRouterinCamel2.4orolder]]
Dynamic Router in Camel 2.4 or older
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The simplest way to implement this is to use the
link:recipientlist-annotation.html[RecipientList Annotation] on a Bean
method to determine where to route the message.

javapublic class MyDynamicRouter \{ @Consume(uri = "activemq:foo")
@RecipientList public List<String> route(@XPath("/customer/id") String
customerId, @Header("Location") String location, Document body) \{ //
query a database to find the best match of the endpoint based on the
input parameteres ... } }

In the above we can use the
link:parameter-binding-annotations.html[Parameter Binding Annotations]
to bind different parts of the link:message.html[Message] to method
parameters or use an link:expression.html[Expression] such as using
link:xpath.html[XPath] or link:xquery.html[XQuery].

The method can be invoked in a number of ways as described in the
link:bean-integration.html[Bean Integration] such as

* link:pojo-producing.html[POJO Producing]
* link:spring-remoting.html[Spring Remoting]
* link:bean.html[Bean] component

link:using-this-pattern.html[Using This Pattern]
