[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[FTP2-FTP/SFTP/FTPSComponent]]
FTP/SFTP/FTPS Component
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This component provides access to remote file systems over the FTP and
SFTP protocols.

Maven users will need to add the following dependency to their `pom.xml`
for this component:

xml<dependency> <groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId>
<artifactId>camel-ftp</artifactId> <version>x.x.x</version>See the
documentation of the Apache Commons <!-- use the same version as your
Camel core version --> </dependency>

 

 

More options

See link:file2.html[File] for more options as all the options from
link:file2.html[File] is inherited.

Absolute paths

Absolute path is *not* supported.

*Camel 2.16* will translate absolute paths to relative ones by trimming
all leading slashes from `directoryname`. There'll be WARN message
printed in the logs.

Consuming from remote FTP server

Make sure you read the section titled _Default when consuming files_
further below for details related to consuming files.

[[FTP2-URIformat]]
URI format
^^^^^^^^^^

ftp://[username@]hostname[:port]/directoryname[?options]
sftp://[username@]hostname[:port]/directoryname[?options]
ftps://[username@]hostname[:port]/directoryname[?options]

Where *directoryname* represents the underlying directory. The directory
name is a relative path. Absolute paths are *not* supported. The
relative path can contain nested folders, such as /inbox/us.

For Camel versions before *Camel 2.16*, the directoryName *must* exist
already as this component does not support the `autoCreate` option
(which the file component does). The reason is that its the FTP
administrator (FTP server) task to properly setup user accounts, and
home directories with the right file permissions etc.

For *Camel 2.16*, `autoCreate` option is supported. When consumer
starts, before polling is scheduled, there's additional FTP operation
performed to create the directory configured for endpoint. The default
value for `autoCreate` is `true`.

If no *username* is provided, then `anonymous` login is attempted using
no password. +
If no *port* number is provided, Camel will provide default values
according to the protocol (ftp = 21, sftp = 22, ftps = 2222).

You can append query options to the URI in the following format,
`?option=value&option=value&...`

This component uses two different libraries for the actual FTP work. FTP
and FTPS uses http://commons.apache.org/net/[Apache Commons Net] while
SFTP uses http://www.jcraft.com/jsch/[JCraft JSCH].

The FTPS component is only available in Camel 2.2 or newer. +
FTPS (also known as FTP Secure) is an extension to FTP that adds support
for the Transport Layer Security (TLS) and the Secure Sockets Layer
(SSL) cryptographic protocols.

[[FTP2-URIOptions]]
URI Options
^^^^^^^^^^^

The options below are exclusive for the FTP component.

More options

See link:file2.html[File] for more options as all the options from
link:file2.html[File] is inherited.

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Name |Default Value |Description
|`username` |`null` |Specifies the username to use to log in to the
remote file systen.

|`password` |`null` |Specifies the password to use to log in to the
remote file system.

|`account` |`null` |*Camel 2.15.2:* Specified the account to use to
login to the remote FTP server (only for FTP and FTP Secure)

|`binary` |`false` |Specifies the file transfer mode, BINARY or ASCII.
Default is ASCII (`false`).

|`disconnect` |`false` |*Camel 2.2:* Whether or not to disconnect from
remote FTP server right after use. Can be used for both consumer and
producer. Disconnect will only disconnect the current connection to the
FTP server. If you have a consumer which you want to stop, then you need
to stop the consumer/route instead.

|`localWorkDirectory` |`null` |When consuming, a local work directory
can be used to store the remote file content directly in local files, to
avoid loading the content into memory. This is beneficial, if you
consume a very big remote file and thus can conserve memory. See below
for more details.

|`passiveMode` |`false` |*FTP and FTPS only*: Specifies whether to use
passive mode connections. Default is active mode (`false`).

|`securityProtocol` |`TLS` |*FTPS only:* Sets the underlying security
protocol. The following values are defined: +
`TLS`: Transport Layer Security +
`SSL`: Secure Sockets Layer

|`disableSecureDataChannelDefaults` |`false` |*Camel 2.4: FTPS only*:
Whether or not to disable using default values for `execPbsz` and
`execProt` when using secure data transfer. You can set this option to
`true` if you want to be in full control what the options `execPbsz` and
`execProt` should be used.

|`download` |`true` |*Camel 2.11:* Whether the FTP consumer should
download the file. If this option is set to `false`, then the message
body will be `null`, but the consumer will still trigger a Camel
link:exchange.html[Exchange] that has details about the file such as
file name, file size, etc. It's just that the file will not be
downloaded.

|streamDownload |false |*Camel 2.11:* Whether the consumer should
download the entire file up front, the default behavior, or if it should
pass an InputStream read from the remote resource rather than an
in-memory array as the in body of
the Camel link:exchange.html[Exchange].  This option is ignored if
download is false or is localWorkDirectory is provided.  This option is
useful for working with large remote files.

|`execProt` |`null` |*Camel 2.4: FTPS only*: Will by default use option
`P` if secure data channel defaults hasn't been disabled. Possible
values are: +
`C`: Clear +
`S`: Safe (SSL protocol only) +
`E`: Confidential (SSL protocol only) +
`P`: Private

|`execPbsz` |`null` |*Camel 2.4: FTPS only*: This option specifies the
buffer size of the secure data channel. If option `useSecureDataChannel`
has been enabled and this option has not been explicit set, then value
`0` is used.

|`isImplicit` |`false` |*FTPS only:* Sets the security
mode(implicit/explicit). Default is explicit (`false`).

|`knownHostsFile` |`null` |*SFTP only:* Sets the `known_hosts` file, so
that the SFTP endpoint can do host key verification.

|`useUserKnownHostsFile` |true |*SFTP onlly: Camel 2.18:* If
knownHostFile has not been explicit configured then use the host file
from System.getProperty(user.home)/.ssh/known_hosts

|`knownHostsUri` |`null` |*SFTP only:* *Camel 2.11.1:* Sets the
`known_hosts` file (loaded from classpath by default), so that the SFTP
endpoint can do host key verification.

|`keyPair` |`null` |*SFTP only:* *Camel 2.12.0:* Sets the Java KeyPair
for SSH public key authentication, it supports DSA or RSA keys.

|`privateKeyFile` |`null` |*SFTP only:* Set the private key file to that
the SFTP endpoint can do private key verification.

|`privateKeyUri` |`null` |*SFTP only:* *Camel 2.11.1:* Set the private
key file (loaded from classpath by default) to that the SFTP endpoint
can do private key verification.

|`privateKey` |`null` |*SFTP only:* *Camel 2.11.1:* Set the private key
as byte[] to that the SFTP endpoint can do private key verification.

|`privateKeyFilePassphrase` |`null` |*SFTP only:* *Deprecated:* use
`privateKeyPassphrase` instead. Set the private key file passphrase to
that the SFTP endpoint can do private key verification.

|`privateKeyPassphrase` |`null` |*SFTP only:* *Camel 2.11.1:* Set the
private key file passphrase to that the SFTP endpoint can do private key
verification.

|`preferredAuthentications` |`null` |*SFTP only:* *Camel 2.10.7,
2.11.2,2.12.0:* set the preferred authentications which SFTP endpoint
will used. Some example include:password,publickey. If not specified the
default list from JSCH will be used.

|`ciphers` |`null` |*Camel 2.8.2, 2.9: SFTP only* Set a comma separated
list of ciphers that will be used in order of preference. Possible
cipher names are defined by http://www.jcraft.com/jsch/[JCraft JSCH].
Some examples include:
aes128-ctr,aes128-cbc,3des-ctr,3des-cbc,blowfish-cbc,aes192-cbc,aes256-cbc.
If not specified the default list from JSCH will be used.

|`fastExistsCheck` |`false` |*Camel 2.8.2, 2.9:* If set this option to
be true, camel-ftp will use the list file directly to check if the file
exists. Since some FTP server may not support to list the file directly,
if the option is false, camel-ftp will use the old way to list the
directory and check if the file exists. Note from *Camel 2.10.1* onwards
this option also influences `readLock=changed` to control whether it
performs a fast check to update file information or not. This can be
used to speed up the process if the FTP server has a lot of files.

|`strictHostKeyChecking` |`no` |*SFTP only:* *Camel 2.2:* Sets whether
to use strict host key checking. Possible values are: `no`, `yes` and
`ask`. `ask` does not make sense to use as Camel cannot answer the
question for you as its meant for human intervention. *Note:* The
default in Camel 2.1 and below was `ask`.

|`maximumReconnectAttempts` |`3` |Specifies the maximum reconnect
attempts Camel performs when it tries to connect to the remote FTP
server. Use 0 to disable this behavior.

|`reconnectDelay` |`1000` |Delay in millis Camel will wait before
performing a reconnect attempt.

|`connectTimeout` |`10000` |*Camel 2.4:* Is the connect timeout in
millis. This corresponds to using `ftpClient.connectTimeout` for the
FTP/FTPS. For SFTP this option is also used when attempting to connect.

|`soTimeout` |`null / 30000` a|
*FTP and FTPS Only:* *Camel 2.4:* Is the `SocketOptions.SO_TIMEOUT`
value in millis. A good idea is to configure this to a value such as
300000 (5 minutes) to not hang a connection. On SFTP this option is set
as timeout on the JSCH Session instance.

Also SFTP from *Camel 2.14.3/2.15.3/2.16* onwards.

From *Camel 2.16* onwards the default is 300000 (300 sec).

|`timeout` |`30000` |*FTP and FTPS Only:* *Camel 2.4:* Is the data
timeout in millis. This corresponds to using `ftpClient.dataTimeout` for
the FTP/FTPS. For SFTP there is no data timeout.

|`throwExceptionOnConnectFailed` |`false` |*Camel 2.5:* Whether or not
to thrown an exception if a successful connection and login could not be
establish. This allows a custom `pollStrategy` to deal with the
exception, for example to stop the consumer or the likes.

|`siteCommand` |`null` |*FTP and FTPS Only:* *Camel 2.5:* To execute
site commands after successful login. Multiple site commands can be
separated using a new line character (\n). Use `help site` to see which
site commands your FTP server supports.

|`stepwise` |`true` |*Camel 2.6:* Whether or not stepwise traversing
directories should be used or not. Stepwise means that it will CD one
directory at a time. See more details below. You can disable this in
case you can't use this approach.

|`separator` |`UNIX` a|
*Camel 2.6:* Dictates what path separator char to use when uploading
files. `Auto` = Use the path provided without altering it. `UNIX` = Use
unix style path separators. `Windows` = Use Windows style path
separators.

Since *Camel 2.15.2*: The default value is changed to UNIX style path,
before *Camel 2.15.2*: The default value is `Auto.`

|`chmod` |`null` |*SFTP Producer Only:* *Camel 2.9:* Allows you to set
chmod on the stored file. For example `chmod=640`.

|`compression` |0 |*SFTP Only:* *Camel 2.8.3/2.9:* To use compression.
Specify a level from 1 to 10. *Important:* You must manually add the
needed JSCH zlib JAR to the classpath for compression support.

|`receiveBufferSize` |`32768` |*FTP/FTPS Only: Camel 2.15.1:* The buffer
size for downloading files. The default size is 32kb.

|`ftpClient` |`null` |*FTP and FTPS Only:* *Camel 2.1:* Allows you to
use a custom `org.apache.commons.net.ftp.FTPClient` instance.

|`ftpClientConfig` |`null` |*FTP and FTPS Only:* *Camel 2.1:* Allows you
to use a custom `org.apache.commons.net.ftp.FTPClientConfig` instance.

|`ftpClientConfig.XXX` |  |*FTP and FTPS Only:* To configure various
options on the FTPClient instance from the uri. For example:
`ftpClientConfig.receiveDataSocketBufferSize=8192&ftpClientConfig.sendDataSocketBufferSize=8192`

|`serverAliveInterval` |`0` |*SFTP Only:* *Camel 2.8* Allows you to set
the serverAliveInterval of the sftp session

|`serverAliveCountMax` |`1` |*SFTP Only:* *Camel 2.8* Allows you to set
the serverAliveCountMax of the sftp session

|`ftpClient.trustStore.file` |`null` |*FTPS Only:* Sets the trust store
file, so that the FTPS client can look up for trusted certificates.

|`ftpClient.trustStore.type` |`JKS` |*FTPS Only:* Sets the trust store
type.

|`ftpClient.trustStore.algorithm` |`SunX509` |*FTPS Only:* Sets the
trust store algorithm.

|`ftpClient.trustStore.password` |`null` |*FTPS Only:* Sets the trust
store password.

|`ftpClient.keyStore.file` |`null` |*FTPS Only:* Sets the key store
file, so that the FTPS client can look up for the private certificate.

|`ftpClient.keyStore.type` |`JKS` |*FTPS Only:* Sets the key store type.

|`ftpClient.keyStore.algorithm` |`SunX509` |*FTPS Only:* Sets the key
store algorithm.

|`ftpClient.keyStore.password` |`null` |*FTPS Only:* Sets the key store
password.

|`ftpClient.keyStore.keyPassword` |`null` |*FTPS Only:* Sets the private
key password.

|`sslContextParameters` |`null` |*FTPS Only:* *Camel 2.9:* Reference to
a `org.apache.camel.util.jsse.SSLContextParameters` in the
http://camel.apache.org/registry.html[Registry].  This reference
overrides any configured SSL related options on ftpClient as well as the
securityProtocol (SSL, TLS, etc.) set on FtpsConfiguration.  See
link:camel-configuration-utilities.html[Using the JSSE Configuration
Utility].

|`proxy` |`null` |*SFTP Only:* *Camel 2.10.7, 2.11.1:* Reference to a
`com.jcraft.jsch.Proxy` in the
http://camel.apache.org/registry.html[Registry].  This proxy is used to
consume/send messages from the target SFTP host.

|`useList` |`true` |*FTP/FTPS Only:* *Camel 2.12.1:* Whether the
consumer should use FTP LIST command to retrieve directory listing to
see which files exists. If this option is set to `false`, then
`stepwise=false` must be configured, and also `fileName` must be
configured to a fixed name, so the consumer knows the name of the file
to retrieve. When doing this only that single file can be retrieved. See
further below for more details.

|`ignoreFileNotFoundOrPermissionError` |`false` |*Camel 2.12.1:* Whether
the consumer should ignore when a file was attempted to be retrieved but
did not exist (for some reason), or failure due insufficient file
permission error. *Camel 2.14.2:* This option now applies to directories
as well.

|`sendNoop` |`true` |*Camel 2.16:* Producer only. Whether to send a noop
command as a pre-write check before uploading files to the FTP server.
This is enabled by default as a validation of the connection is still
valid, which allows to silently re-connect to be able to upload the
file. However if this causes problems, you can turn this option off.

|`jschLoggingLevel` |`WARN` |*SFTP Only: Camel 2.15.3/2.16:* The logging
level to use for JSCH activity logging. As JSCH is verbose at by default
at INFO level the threshold is WARN by default.

|`bulkRequest` |  |*SFTP Only: Camel 2.17.1:* Specifies how many
requests may be outstanding at any one time. Increasing this value may
slightly improve file transfer speed but will increase memory usage.

|`disconnectOnBatchComplete` |false |*Camel 2.18:* Whether or not to
disconnect from remote FTP server after a Batch is complete. Can be used
for both consumer and producer. Disconnect will only disconnect the
current connection to the FTP server. If you have a consumer which you
want to stop, then you need to stop the consumer/route instead.

|`activePortRange` |  |*Camel 2.18:* Set the client side port range in
active mode. The syntax is: minPort-maxPort. Both port numbers are
inclusive, eg 10000-19999 to include all 1xxxx ports.
|=======================================================================

FTPS component default trust store

When using the `ftpClient.` properties related to SSL with the FTPS
component, the trust store accepts all certificates. If you only want
trust selective certificates, you have to configure the trust store with
the `ftpClient.trustStore.xxx` options or by configuring a custom
`ftpClient`.

When using `sslContextParameters`, the trust store is managed by the
configuration of the provided SSLContextParameters instance.

You can configure additional options on the `ftpClient` and
`ftpClientConfig` from the URI directly by using the `ftpClient.` or
`ftpClientConfig.` prefix.

For example to set the `setDataTimeout` on the `FTPClient` to 30 seconds
you can do:

from("ftp://foo@myserver?password=secret&ftpClient.dataTimeout=30000").to("bean:foo");

You can mix and match and have use both prefixes, for example to
configure date format or timezones.

from("ftp://foo@myserver?password=secret&ftpClient.dataTimeout=30000&ftpClientConfig.serverLanguageCode=fr").to("bean:foo");

You can have as many of these options as you like.

See the documentation of the Apache Commons FTP FTPClientConfig for
possible options and more details. And as well for Apache Commons FTP
FTPClient.

If you do not like having many and long configuration in the url you can
refer to the `ftpClient` or `ftpClientConfig` to use by letting Camel
lookup in the link:registry.html[Registry] for it.

For example:

<bean id="myConfig" class="org.apache.commons.net.ftp.FTPClientConfig">
<property name="lenientFutureDates" value="true"/> <property
name="serverLanguageCode" value="fr"/> </bean>

And then let Camel lookup this bean when you use the # notation in the
url.

from("ftp://foo@myserver?password=secret&ftpClientConfig=#myConfig").to("bean:foo");

[[FTP2-MoreURIoptions]]
More URI options
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

title:More options

See link:file2.html[File2] as all the options there also applies for
this component.

[[FTP2-Examples]]
Examples
^^^^^^^^

`ftp://someone@someftpserver.com/public/upload/images/holiday2008?password=secret&binary=true` +
`ftp://someoneelse@someotherftpserver.co.uk:12049/reports/2008/password=secret&binary=false` +
`ftp://publicftpserver.com/download`

FTP Consumer does not support concurrency

The FTP consumer (with the same endpoint) does not support concurrency
(the backing FTP client is not thread safe). +
You can use multiple FTP consumers to poll from different endpoints. It
is only a single endpoint that does not support concurrent consumers.

The FTP producer does *not* have this issue, it supports concurrency.

More information

This component is an extension of the link:file2.html[File] component.
So there are more samples and details on the link:file2.html[File]
component page.

[[FTP2-Defaultwhenconsumingfiles]]
Default when consuming files
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The link:ftp2.html[FTP] consumer will by default leave the consumed
files untouched on the remote FTP server. You have to configure it
explicitly if you want it to delete the files or move them to another
location. For example you can use `delete=true` to delete the files, or
use `move=.done` to move the files into a hidden done sub directory.

The regular link:file2.html[File] consumer is different as it will by
default move files to a `.camel` sub directory. The reason Camel does
*not* do this by default for the FTP consumer is that it may lack
permissions by default to be able to move or delete files.

[[FTP2-limitations]]
limitations
+++++++++++

The option *readLock* can be used to force Camel *not* to consume files
that are currently being written. However, this option is turned off by
default, as it requires that the user has write access. See the options
table at link:file2.html[File2] for more details about read locks. +
There are other solutions to avoid consuming files that are currently
being written over FTP; for instance, you can write to a temporary
destination and move the file after it has been written.

When moving files using `move` or `preMove` option the files are
restricted to the FTP_ROOT folder. That prevents you from moving files
outside the FTP area. If you want to move files to another area you can
use soft links and move files into a soft linked folder.

[[FTP2-MessageHeaders]]
Message Headers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following message headers can be used to affect the behavior of the
component

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Header |Description
|`CamelFileName` |Specifies the output file name (relative to the
endpoint directory) to be used for the output message when sending to
the endpoint. If this is not present and no expression either, then a
generated message ID is used as the filename instead.

|`CamelFileNameProduced` |The actual filepath (path + name) for the
output file that was written. This header is set by Camel and its
purpose is providing end-users the name of the file that was written.

|`CamelBatchIndex` |Current index out of total number of files being
consumed in this batch.

|`CamelBatchSize` |Total number of files being consumed in this batch.

|`CamelFileHost` |The remote hostname.

|`CamelFileLocalWorkPath` |Path to the local work file, if local work
directory is used.
|=======================================================================

In addition the FTP/FTPS consumer and producer will enrich the Camel
`Message` with the following headers

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Header |Description
|`CamelFtpReplyCode` |*Camel 2.11.1:* The FTP client reply code (the
type is a integer)

|`CamelFtpReplyString` |*Camel 2.11.1:* The FTP client reply string
|=======================================================================

[[FTP2-Abouttimeouts]]
About timeouts
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The two set of libraries (see top) have different APIs for setting
timeout. You can use the `connectTimeout` option for both of them to set
a timeout in millis to establish a network connection. An individual
`soTimeout` can also be set on the FTP/FTPS, which corresponds to using
`ftpClient.soTimeout`. Notice SFTP will automatically use
`connectTimeout` as its `soTimeout`. The `timeout` option only applies
for FTP/FTSP as the data timeout, which corresponds to the
`ftpClient.dataTimeout` value. All timeout values are in millis.

[[FTP2-UsingLocalWorkDirectory]]
Using Local Work Directory
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Camel supports consuming from remote FTP servers and downloading the
files directly into a local work directory. This avoids reading the
entire remote file content into memory as it is streamed directly into
the local file using `FileOutputStream`.

Camel will store to a local file with the same name as the remote file,
though with `.inprogress` as extension while the file is being
downloaded. Afterwards, the file is renamed to remove the `.inprogress`
suffix. And finally, when the link:exchange.html[Exchange] is complete
the local file is deleted.

So if you want to download files from a remote FTP server and store it
as files then you need to route to a file endpoint such as:

javafrom("ftp://someone@someserver.com?password=secret&localWorkDirectory=/tmp").to("file://inbox");
Optimization by renaming work file

The route above is ultra efficient as it avoids reading the entire file
content into memory. It will download the remote file directly to a
local file stream. The `java.io.File` handle is then used as the
link:exchange.html[Exchange] body. The file producer leverages this fact
and can work directly on the work file `java.io.File` handle and perform
a `java.io.File.rename` to the target filename. As Camel knows it's a
local work file, it can optimize and use a rename instead of a file
copy, as the work file is meant to be deleted anyway.

[[FTP2-Stepwisechangingdirectories]]
Stepwise changing directories
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Camel link:ftp2.html[FTP] can operate in two modes in terms of
traversing directories when consuming files (eg downloading) or
producing files (eg uploading)

* stepwise
* not stepwise

You may want to pick either one depending on your situation and security
issues. Some Camel end users can only download files if they use
stepwise, while others can only download if they do not. At least you
have the choice to pick (from Camel 2.6 onwards).

In Camel 2.0 - 2.5 there is only one mode and it is:

* before 2.5 not stepwise
* 2.5 stepwise

From Camel 2.6 onwards there is now an option `stepwise` you can use to
control the behavior.

Note that stepwise changing of directory will in most cases only work
when the user is confined to it's home directory and when the home
directory is reported as `"/"`.

The difference between the two of them is best illustrated with an
example. Suppose we have the following directory structure on the remote
FTP server we need to traverse and download files:

/ /one /one/two /one/two/sub-a /one/two/sub-b

And that we have a file in each of sub-a (a.txt) and sub-b (b.txt)
folder.

[[FTP2-Usingstepwise=true(defaultmode)]]
Using stepwise=true (default mode)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

TYPE A 200 Type set to A PWD 257 "/" is current directory. CWD one 250
CWD successful. "/one" is current directory. CWD two 250 CWD successful.
"/one/two" is current directory. SYST 215 UNIX emulated by FileZilla
PORT 127,0,0,1,17,94 200 Port command successful LIST 150 Opening data
channel for directory list. 226 Transfer OK CWD sub-a 250 CWD
successful. "/one/two/sub-a" is current directory. PORT 127,0,0,1,17,95
200 Port command successful LIST 150 Opening data channel for directory
list. 226 Transfer OK CDUP 200 CDUP successful. "/one/two" is current
directory. CWD sub-b 250 CWD successful. "/one/two/sub-b" is current
directory. PORT 127,0,0,1,17,96 200 Port command successful LIST 150
Opening data channel for directory list. 226 Transfer OK CDUP 200 CDUP
successful. "/one/two" is current directory. CWD / 250 CWD successful.
"/" is current directory. PWD 257 "/" is current directory. CWD one 250
CWD successful. "/one" is current directory. CWD two 250 CWD successful.
"/one/two" is current directory. PORT 127,0,0,1,17,97 200 Port command
successful RETR foo.txt 150 Opening data channel for file transfer. 226
Transfer OK CWD / 250 CWD successful. "/" is current directory. PWD 257
"/" is current directory. CWD one 250 CWD successful. "/one" is current
directory. CWD two 250 CWD successful. "/one/two" is current directory.
CWD sub-a 250 CWD successful. "/one/two/sub-a" is current directory.
PORT 127,0,0,1,17,98 200 Port command successful RETR a.txt 150 Opening
data channel for file transfer. 226 Transfer OK CWD / 250 CWD
successful. "/" is current directory. PWD 257 "/" is current directory.
CWD one 250 CWD successful. "/one" is current directory. CWD two 250 CWD
successful. "/one/two" is current directory. CWD sub-b 250 CWD
successful. "/one/two/sub-b" is current directory. PORT 127,0,0,1,17,99
200 Port command successful RETR b.txt 150 Opening data channel for file
transfer. 226 Transfer OK CWD / 250 CWD successful. "/" is current
directory. QUIT 221 Goodbye disconnected.

As you can see when stepwise is enabled, it will traverse the directory
structure using CD xxx.

[[FTP2-Usingstepwise=false]]
Using stepwise=false
++++++++++++++++++++

230 Logged on TYPE A 200 Type set to A SYST 215 UNIX emulated by
FileZilla PORT 127,0,0,1,4,122 200 Port command successful LIST one/two
150 Opening data channel for directory list 226 Transfer OK PORT
127,0,0,1,4,123 200 Port command successful LIST one/two/sub-a 150
Opening data channel for directory list 226 Transfer OK PORT
127,0,0,1,4,124 200 Port command successful LIST one/two/sub-b 150
Opening data channel for directory list 226 Transfer OK PORT
127,0,0,1,4,125 200 Port command successful RETR one/two/foo.txt 150
Opening data channel for file transfer. 226 Transfer OK PORT
127,0,0,1,4,126 200 Port command successful RETR one/two/sub-a/a.txt 150
Opening data channel for file transfer. 226 Transfer OK PORT
127,0,0,1,4,127 200 Port command successful RETR one/two/sub-b/b.txt 150
Opening data channel for file transfer. 226 Transfer OK QUIT 221 Goodbye
disconnected.

As you can see when not using stepwise, there are no CD operation
invoked at all.

[[FTP2-Samples]]
Samples
^^^^^^^

In the sample below we set up Camel to download all the reports from the
FTP server once every hour (60 min) as BINARY content and store it as
files on the local file
system.\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-ftp/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/file/remote/FromFtpToBinarySampleTest.java}And
the route using Spring DSL:

xml <route> <from
uri="ftp://scott@localhost/public/reports?password=tiger&amp;binary=true&amp;delay=60000"/>
<to uri="file://target/test-reports"/> </route>

[[FTP2-ConsumingaremoteFTPSserver(implicitSSL)andclientauthentication]]
Consuming a remote FTPS server (implicit SSL) and client authentication
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

from("ftps://admin@localhost:2222/public/camel?password=admin&securityProtocol=SSL&isImplicit=true
&ftpClient.keyStore.file=./src/test/resources/server.jks
&ftpClient.keyStore.password=password&ftpClient.keyStore.keyPassword=password")
.to("bean:foo");

[[FTP2-ConsumingaremoteFTPSserver(explicitTLS)andacustomtruststoreconfiguration]]
Consuming a remote FTPS server (explicit TLS) and a custom trust store
configuration
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

from("ftps://admin@localhost:2222/public/camel?password=admin&ftpClient.trustStore.file=./src/test/resources/server.jks&ftpClient.trustStore.password=password")
.to("bean:foo");

[[FTP2-Filterusingorg.apache.camel.component.file.GenericFileFilter]]
Filter using `org.apache.camel.component.file.GenericFileFilter`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Camel supports pluggable filtering strategies. This strategy can be
provided by
implementing `org.apache.camel.component.file.GenericFileFilter` in
Java. You can then configure the endpoint with such a filter to skip
certain filters before being processed.

In the sample we have built our own filter that only accepts files
starting with report in the
filename.\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-ftp/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/file/remote/FromFtpRemoteFileFilterTest.java}And
then we can configure our route using the *filter* attribute to
reference our filter (using `#` notation) that we have defined in the
spring XML file:

xml <!-- define our sorter as a plain spring bean --> <bean
id="myFilter" class="com.mycompany.MyFileFilter"/> <route> <from
uri="ftp://someuser@someftpserver.com?password=secret&amp;filter=#myFilter"/>
<to uri="bean:processInbox"/> </route>

[[FTP2-FilteringusingANTpathmatcher]]
Filtering using ANT path matcher
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ANT path matcher is a filter that is shipped out-of-the-box in the
*camel-spring* jar. So you need to depend on *camel-spring* if you are
using Maven. +
The reason is that we leverage Spring's
http://static.springsource.org/spring/docs/3.0.x/api/org/springframework/util/AntPathMatcher.html[AntPathMatcher]
to do the actual matching.

The file paths are matched with the following rules:

* `?` matches one character
* `*` matches zero or more characters
* `**` matches zero or more directories in a path

The sample below demonstrates how to use
it:\{snippet:id=example|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/tests/camel-itest/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/itest/ftp/SpringFileAntPathMatcherRemoteFileFilterTest-context.xml}

[[FTP2-UsingaproxywithSFTP]]
Using a proxy with SFTP
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To use an HTTP proxy to connect to your remote host, you can configure
your route in the following way:

xml<!-- define our sorter as a plain spring bean --> <bean id="proxy"
class="com.jcraft.jsch.ProxyHTTP"> <constructor-arg value="localhost"/>
<constructor-arg value="7777"/> </bean> <route> <from
uri="sftp://localhost:9999/root?username=admin&password=admin&proxy=#proxy"/>
<to uri="bean:processFile"/> </route>

You can also assign a user name and password to the proxy, if necessary.
Please consult the documentation for `com.jcraft.jsch.Proxy` to discover
all options.

[[FTP2-SettingpreferredSFTPauthenticationmethod]]
Setting preferred SFTP authentication method
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you want to explicitly specify the list of authentication methods
that should be used by `sftp` component, use `preferredAuthentications`
option. If for example you would like Camel to attempt to authenticate
with private/public SSH key and fallback to user/password authentication
in the case when no public key is available, use the following route
configuration:

from("sftp://localhost:9999/root?username=admin&password=admin&preferredAuthentications=publickey,password").
to("bean:processFile");

[[FTP2-Consumingasinglefileusingafixedname]]
Consuming a single file using a fixed name
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When you want to download a single file and know the file name, you can
use `fileName=myFileName.txt` to tell Camel the name of the file to
download. By default the consumer will still do a FTP LIST command to do
a directory listing and then filter these files based on the `fileName`
option. Though in this use-case it may be desirable to turn off the
directory listing by setting `useList=false`. For example the user
account used to login to the FTP server may not have permission to do a
FTP LIST command. So you can turn off this with `useList=false`, and
then provide the fixed name of the file to download with
`fileName=myFileName.txt`, then the FTP consumer can still download the
file. If the file for some reason does not exist, then Camel will by
default throw an exception, you can turn this off and ignore this by
setting `ignoreFileNotFoundOrPermissionError=true`.

For example to have a Camel route that picks up a single file, and
deletes it after use you can write

from("ftp://admin@localhost:21/nolist/?password=admin&stepwise=false&useList=false&ignoreFileNotFoundOrPermissionError=true&fileName=report.txt&delete=true")
.to("activemq:queue:report");

Notice that we have used all the options we talked above.

You can also use this with `ConsumerTemplate`. For example to download a
single file (if it exists) and grab the file content as a String type:

String data =
template.retrieveBodyNoWait("ftp://admin@localhost:21/nolist/?password=admin&stepwise=false&useList=false&ignoreFileNotFoundOrPermissionError=true&fileName=report.txt&delete=true",
String.class);

[[FTP2-Debuglogging]]
Debug logging
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This component has log level *TRACE* that can be helpful if you have
problems.

link:endpoint-see-also.html[Endpoint See Also]

* link:file2.html[File2]
