[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[HowDoIConfigureEndpoints?-HowDoIConfigureEndpoints?]]
How Do I Configure Endpoints?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are a few different approaches to configuring components and
endpoints.

[[HowDoIConfigureEndpoints?-UsingJava]]
Using Java
^^^^^^^^^^

You can explicitly configure a link:component.html[Component] using Java
code as shown in this link:walk-through-an-example.html[example]

Or you can explicitly get hold of an link:endpoint.html[Endpoint] and
configure it using Java code as shown in the link:mock.html[Mock
endpoint examples].

SomeEndpoint endpoint = camelContext.getEndpoint("someURI",
SomeEndpoint.class); endpoint.setSomething("aValue");

[[HowDoIConfigureEndpoints?-UsingCDI]]
Using CDI
^^^^^^^^^

You can use link:cdi.html[CDI] as dependency injection framework to
configure your link:component.html[Component] or
link:endpoint.html[Endpoint] instances.

For example, to configure the SJMS component, you can declare a producer
method in a CDI bean:

javaclass MyCdiComponent \{ @PropertyInject("jms.maxConnections") int
maxConnections; @Produces @Named("sjms") @ApplicationScoped
SjmsComponent sjms() \{ SjmsComponent component = new SjmsComponent();
component.setConnectionFactory(new
ActiveMQConnectionFactory("vm://broker?broker.persistent=false"));
component.setConnectionCount(maxConnections); return component; } }

Then, the component is lazily looked-up by Camel CDI whenever it is
referenced, e.g., from the Camel Java DSL:

javaclass MyCdiRoute extends RouteBuilder \{ @Override public void
configure() \{ from("sjms:sample.queue") .log("Received message
[$\{body}]"); } }

Besides, endpoints of that component can be injected in any CDI beans,
e.g.,

javaclass MyCdiBean \{ @Inject @Uri("sjms:sample.queue") Endpoint
endpoint; }

[[HowDoIConfigureEndpoints?-UsingGuice]]
Using Guice
^^^^^^^^^^^

You can also use link:guice.html[Guice] as the dependency injection
framework. For example see the link:guice-jms-example.html[Guice JMS
Example].

[[HowDoIConfigureEndpoints?-UsingSpringXML]]
Using Spring XML
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can configure your link:component.html[Component] or
link:endpoint.html[Endpoint] instances in your link:spring.html[Spring]
XML as
follows.\{snippet:id=example|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-jms/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/component/jms/jmsRouteUsingSpring.xml}Which
allows you to configure a component using some name (activemq in the
above example), then you can refer to the component using
*`activemq:[queue:|topic:]destinationName`*. This works by
the *`SpringCamelContext`* lazily fetching components from the spring
context for the scheme name you use for link:endpoint.html[Endpoint]
link:uris.html[URIs]

[[HowDoIConfigureEndpoints?-UsingEndpointURIs]]
Using Endpoint URIs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Another approach is to use the URI syntax. The URI syntax supports the
query notation. So for example with the link:mail.html[Mail] component
you can configure the password property via the URI

pop3://host:port?password=foo

[[HowDoIConfigureEndpoints?-ReferencingBeansfromEndpointURIs]]
Referencing Beans from Endpoint URIs
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*From Camel 2.0:*

When configuring endpoints using URI syntax you can now refer to beans
in the link:registry.html[Registry] using the *`#`* notation. +
If the parameter value starts with a `#` sign then Camel will lookup in
the link:registry.html[Registry] for a bean of the given type. For
instance:

file://inbox?sorter=#mySpecialFileSorter

Will lookup a bean with the id *`mySpecialFileSorter`* in the
link:registry.html[Registry].

[[HowDoIConfigureEndpoints?-ConfiguringParameterValuesUsingRawValues,e.g.,suchaspasswords]]
Configuring Parameter Values Using Raw Values, e.g., such as passwords
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*From Camel 2.11:*

When configuring endpoint options using URI syntax, then the values is
by default URI encoded. This can be a problem if you want to configure
passwords and just use the value _as is_ without any encoding. For
example you may have a plus sign in the password, which would be decimal
encoded by default.

From *Camel 2.11*: we made this easier as you can denote a parameter
value to be *raw* using the following syntax *`RAW(value)`* e.g., the
value starts with *`RAW(`* and then ends with the parenthesis *`)`*.
Here is a little example:

.to("ftp:joe@myftpserver.com?password=RAW(se+re?t&23)&binary=true"

In the above example, we have declare the password value as raw, and the
actual password would be as typed, e.g., *`se+re?t&23`*.

[[HowDoIConfigureEndpoints?-UsingPropertyPlaceholders]]
Using Property Placeholders
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Camel have extensive support for using property placeholders, which you
can read more link:using-propertyplaceholder.html[about here]. For
example in the ftp example above we can externalize the password to
a *`.properties`* file.

For example configuring the property placeholder when using a
link:dsl.html[XML DSL], where we declare the location of the .properties
file. Though we can also define this in Java code. See the
link:using-propertyplaceholder.html[documentation] for more details.

xml<camelContext ...> <propertyPlaceholder id="properties"
location="myftp.properties"/> ... </camelContext>

And the Camel route now refers to the placeholder using the *\{\{* key
*}}* notation:

java.to("ftp:joe@myftpserver.com?password=\{\{myFtpPassword}}&binary=true"

And have a *`myftp.properties`* file with password. Notice we still
define the RAW(value) style to ensure the password is used _as is_

myFtpPassword=RAW(se+re?t&23)

We could still have used the RAW(value) in the Camel route instead:

java.to("ftp:joe@myftpserver.com?password=RAW(\{\{myFtpPassword}})&binary=true"

And then we would need to remove the RAW from the properties file:

myFtpPassword=se+re?t&23

To understand more about property placeholders, read the
link:using-propertyplaceholder.html[documentation].

[[HowDoIConfigureEndpoints?-ConfiguringURIsusingEndpointwithBeanPropertyStyle]]
Configuring URIs using Endpoint with Bean Property Style
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.15*

Sometimes configuring endpoint uris may have many options, and therefore
the URI can become long. In Java DSL you can break the URIs into new
lines as its just Java code, e.g., just concat the String. When using
XML DSL then the URI is an attribute, e.g., *`<from uri="bla bla"/>`*.
From *Camel 2.15*: you can configure the endpoint separately, and from
the routes refer to the endpoints using their shorthand IDs. 

xml<camelContext ...>   <endpoint id="foo" uri="ftp://foo@myserver">
<property name="password" value="secret"/> <property name="recursive"
value="true"/> <property name="ftpClient.dataTimeout" value="30000"/>
<property name="ftpClient.serverLanguageCode" value="fr"/>  </endpoint>
  <route> <from uri="ref:foo"/> ... </route> </camelContext>

 

In the example above, the endpoint with id foo, is defined
using *`<endpoint>`* which under the covers assembles this as an URI,
with all the options, as if you have defined all the options directly in
the URI. You can still configure some options in the URI, and then
use *`<property>`* style for additional options, or to override options
from the URI, such as:

xml<endpoint id="foo" uri="ftp://foo@myserver?recursive=true"> <property
name="password" value="secret"/> <property name="ftpClient.dataTimeout"
value="30000"/> <property name="ftpClient.serverLanguageCode"
value="fr"/> </endpoint>

 

[[HowDoIConfigureEndpoints?-ConfiguringLongURIsUsingNewLines]]
Configuring Long URIs Using New Lines
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.15*

Sometimes configuring endpoint URIs may have many options, and therefore
the URI can become long. In Java DSL you can break the URIs into new
lines as its just Java code, e.g., just concat the String. When using
XML DSL then the URI is an attribute, e.g., *`<from uri="bla bla"/>`*.
From *Camel 2.15*: you can break the URI attribute using new line, such
as shown below:

xml<route> <from uri="ftp://foo@myserver?password=secret&amp;
recursive=true&amp; ftpClient.dataTimeout=30000&amp;
ftpClientConfig.serverLanguageCode=fr"/> <to uri="bean:doSomething"/>
</route>

Notice that it still requires to use escape *`&`* as *`&amp;`* in XML.
Also you can have multiple options in one line, e.g., this is the same:

xml<route> <from uri="ftp://foo@myserver?password=secret&amp;
recursive=true&amp;ftpClient.dataTimeout=30000&amp;
ftpClientConfig.serverLanguageCode=fr"/> <to uri="bean:doSomething"/>
</route>

[[HowDoIConfigureEndpoints?-SeeAlso]]
See Also
~~~~~~~~

* link:how-do-i-add-a-component.html[How do I add a component]
* link:spring.html[Spring]
* link:uris.html[URIs]
* link:using-propertyplaceholder.html[Using PropertyPlaceholder]
