[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[iBATIS-iBATIS]]
iBATIS
~~~~~~

The *ibatis:* component allows you to query, poll, insert, update and
delete data in a relational database using
http://ibatis.apache.org/[Apache iBATIS].

Prefer MyBatis

The Apache iBatis project is no longer active. The project is moved
outside Apache and is now know as the MyBatis project. +
Therefore we encourage users to use link:mybatis.html[MyBatis] instead.
This camel-ibatis component will be removed in Camel 3.0.

iBatis do not support Spring 4.x. So you can only use Spring 3.x or
older with iBatis.

Maven users will need to add the following dependency to their `pom.xml`
for this component:

xml<dependency> <groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId>
<artifactId>camel-ibatis</artifactId> <version>x.x.x</version> <!-- use
the same version as your Camel core version --> </dependency>

[[iBATIS-URIformat]]
URI format
^^^^^^^^^^

ibatis:statementName[?options]

Where *statementName* is the name in the iBATIS XML configuration file
which maps to the query, insert, update or delete operation you wish to
evaluate.

You can append query options to the URI in the following format,
`?option=value&option=value&...`

This component will by default load the iBatis SqlMapConfig file from
the root of the classpath and expected named as `SqlMapConfig.xml`. +
It uses Spring resource loading so you can define it using `classpath`,
`file` or `http` as prefix to load resources with those schemes. +
In Camel 2.2 you can configure this on the iBatisComponent with the
`setSqlMapConfig(String)` method.

[[iBATIS-Options]]
Options
^^^^^^^

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="25%,25%,25%,25%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Type |Default |Description
|`consumer.onConsume` |`String` |`null` |Statements to run after
consuming. Can be used, for example, to update rows after they have been
consumed and processed in Camel. See sample later. Multiple statements
can be separated with comma.

|`consumer.useIterator` |`boolean` |`true` |If `true` each row returned
when polling will be processed individually. If `false` the entire
`List` of data is set as the IN body.

|`consumer.routeEmptyResultSet` |`boolean` |`false` |Sets whether empty
result set should be routed or not. By default, empty result sets are
not routed.

|`statementType` |`StatementType` |`null` |Mandatory to specify for
IbatisProducer to control which iBatis `SqlMapClient` method to invoke.
The enum values are: `QueryForObject`, `QueryForList`, `Insert`,
`Update`, `Delete`.

|`maxMessagesPerPoll` |`int` |`0` |An integer to define a maximum
messages to gather per poll. By default, no maximum is set. Can be used
to set a limit of e.g. 1000 to avoid when starting up the server that
there are thousands of files. Set a value of 0 or negative to disabled
it.

|`isolation` |`String` |`TRANSACTION_REPEATABLE_READ` |*Camel 2.9:* A
String the defines the transaction isolation level of the will be used.
Allowed values are TRANSACTION_NONE, TRANSACTION_READ_UNCOMMITTED,
TRANSACTION_READ_COMMITTED, TRANSACTION_REPEATABLE_READ,
TRANSACTION_SERIALIZABLE
|=======================================================================

[width="100%",cols="25%,25%,25%,25%",]
|=======================================================================
|`isolation` |`String` |`TRANSACTION_REPEATABLE_READ` |*Camel 2.9:* A
String the defines the transaction isolation level of the will be used.
Allowed values are TRANSACTION_NONE, TRANSACTION_READ_UNCOMMITTED,
TRANSACTION_READ_COMMITTED, TRANSACTION_REPEATABLE_READ,
TRANSACTION_SERIALIZABLE
|=======================================================================

[[iBATIS-MessageHeaders]]
Message Headers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Camel will populate the result message, either IN or OUT with a header
with the operationName used:

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Header |Type |Description
|`CamelIBatisStatementName` |`String` |The *statementName* used (for
example: insertAccount).

|`CamelIBatisResult` |`Object` |The *response* returned from iBatis in
any of the operations. For instance an `INSERT` could return the
auto-generated key, or number of rows etc.
|=======================================================================

[[iBATIS-MessageBody]]
Message Body
^^^^^^^^^^^^

The response from iBatis will only be set as body if it's a `SELECT`
statement. That means, for example, for `INSERT` statements Camel will
not replace the body. This allows you to continue routing and keep the
original body. The response from iBatis is always stored in the header
with the key `CamelIBatisResult`.

[[iBATIS-Samples]]
Samples
^^^^^^^

For example if you wish to consume beans from a JMS queue and insert
them into a database you could do the following:

from("activemq:queue:newAccount").
to("ibatis:insertAccount?statementType=Insert");

Notice we have to specify the `statementType`, as we need to instruct
Camel which `SqlMapClient` operation to invoke.

Where *insertAccount* is the iBatis ID in the SQL map file:

xml <!-- Insert example, using the Account parameter class --> <insert
id="insertAccount" parameterClass="Account"> insert into ACCOUNT (
ACC_ID, ACC_FIRST_NAME, ACC_LAST_NAME, ACC_EMAIL ) values ( #id#,
#firstName#, #lastName#, #emailAddress# ) </insert>

[[iBATIS-UsingStatementTypeforbettercontrolofIBatis]]
Using StatementType for better control of IBatis
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When routing to an iBatis endpoint you want more fine grained control so
you can control whether the SQL statement to be executed is a `SELEECT`,
`UPDATE`, `DELETE` or `INSERT` etc. So for instance if we want to route
to an iBatis endpoint in which the IN body contains parameters to a
`SELECT` statement we can do:

\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-ibatis/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/ibatis/IBatisQueryForObjectTest.java}

In the code above we can invoke the iBatis statement `selectAccountById`
and the IN body should contain the account id we want to retrieve, such
as an `Integer` type.

We can do the same for some of the other operations, such as
`QueryForList`:

\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-ibatis/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/ibatis/IBatisQueryForListTest.java}

And the same for `UPDATE`, where we can send an `Account` object as IN
body to iBatis:

\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-ibatis/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/ibatis/IBatisQueryForUpdateTest.java}

[[iBATIS-Scheduledpollingexample]]
Scheduled polling example
+++++++++++++++++++++++++

Since this component does not support scheduled polling, you need to use
another mechanism for triggering the scheduled polls, such as the
link:timer.html[Timer] or link:quartz.html[Quartz] components.

In the sample below we poll the database, every 30 seconds using the
link:timer.html[Timer] component and send the data to the JMS queue:

javafrom("timer://pollTheDatabase?delay=30000").to("ibatis:selectAllAccounts?statementType=QueryForList").to("activemq:queue:allAccounts");

And the iBatis SQL map file used:

xml <!-- Select with no parameters using the result map for Account
class. --> <select id="selectAllAccounts" resultMap="AccountResult">
select * from ACCOUNT </select>

[[iBATIS-UsingonConsume]]
Using onConsume
+++++++++++++++

This component supports executing statements *after* data have been
consumed and processed by Camel. This allows you to do post updates in
the database. Notice all statements must be `UPDATE` statements. Camel
supports executing multiple statements whose name should be separated by
comma.

The route below illustrates we execute the *consumeAccount* statement
data is processed. This allows us to change the status of the row in the
database to processed, so we avoid consuming it twice or more.

\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-ibatis/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/ibatis/IBatisQueueTest.java}

And the statements in the sqlmap file:

\{snippet:id=e1|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-ibatis/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/component/ibatis/Account.xml}\{snippet:id=e2|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-ibatis/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/component/ibatis/Account.xml}

link:endpoint-see-also.html[Endpoint See Also]

* link:mybatis.html[MyBatis]
