[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[IdempotentConsumer-IdempotentConsumer]]
Idempotent Consumer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/IdempotentReceiver.html[Idempotent
Consumer] from the link:enterprise-integration-patterns.html[EIP
patterns] is used to filter out duplicate messages.

This pattern is implemented using the
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/processor/idempotent/IdempotentConsumer.html[IdempotentConsumer]
class. This uses an link:expression.html[Expression] to calculate a
unique message ID string for a given message exchange; this ID can then
be looked up in the
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/spi/IdempotentRepository.html[IdempotentRepository]
to see if it has been seen before; if it has the message is consumed; if
its not then the message is processed and the ID is added to the
repository.

The Idempotent Consumer essentially acts like a
link:message-filter.html[Message Filter] to filter out duplicates.

Camel will add the message id eagerly to the repository to detect
duplication also for Exchanges currently in progress. +
On completion Camel will remove the message id from the repository if
the Exchange failed, otherwise it stays there.

Camel provides the following Idempotent Consumer implementations:

* MemoryIdempotentRepository
* link:file2.html[FileIdempotentRepository]
* link:hazelcast-component.html[HazelcastIdempotentRepository]
(*Available as of Camel 2.8*)
* link:sql-component.html[JdbcMessageIdRepository] (*Available as of
Camel 2.7*)
* link:jpa.html[JpaMessageIdRepository]
* link:infinispan.html[InfinispanIdempotentRepository] (*Available as of
Camel 2.13.0)*
* link:jcache.html[JCacheIdempotentRepository]** (*Available as of Camel
2.17.0)***
* link:spring.html[SpringCacheIdempotentRepository] *(**Available as of
Camel 2.17.1)**** +
***
* link:ehcache.html[EhcacheIdempotentRepository]*** *(*Available as of
Camel 2.18.0)*****
* link:kafka.html[KafkaIdempotentRepository] (*Available as of Camel
2.19.0)*

[[IdempotentConsumer-Options]]
Options
^^^^^^^

The Idempotent Consumer has the following options:

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Default |Description
|eager |true |Eager controls whether Camel adds the message to the
repository before or after the exchange has been processed. If enabled
before then Camel will be able to detect duplicate messages even when
messages are currently in progress. By disabling Camel will only detect
duplicates when a message has successfully been processed.

|messageIdRepositoryRef |`null` |A reference to a `IdempotentRepository`
to lookup in the registry. This option is mandatory when using XML DSL.

|skipDuplicate |true |*Camel 2.8:* Sets whether to skip duplicate
messages. If set to `false` then the message will be continued. However
the link:exchange.html[Exchange] has been marked as a duplicate by
having the `Exchange.DUPLICATE_MESSAG` exchange property set to a
`Boolean.TRUE` value.

|removeOnFailure |true |*Camel 2.9:* Sets whether to remove the id of an
Exchange that failed.

|completionEager |false a|
*Camel 2.16:* Sets whether to complete the idempotent consumer eager or
when the exchange is done.

If this option is true to complete eager, then the idempotent consumer
will trigger its completion when the exchange reached the end of the
block of the idempotent consumer pattern. So if the exchange is
continued routed after the block ends, then whatever happens there does
not affect the state.

If this option is false (default) to not complete eager, then the
idempotent consumer will complete when the exchange is done being
routed. So if the exchange is continued routed after the block ends,
then whatever happens there also affect the state. For example if the
exchange failed due to an exception, then the state of the idempotent
consumer will be a rollback.

|=======================================================================

[[IdempotentConsumer-Usingthe]]
*Using the link:fluent-builders.html[Fluent Builders]*
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following example will use the header *myMessageId* to filter out
duplicates\{snippet:id=idempotent|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/builder/RouteBuilderTest.java}The
above
https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/builder/RouteBuilderTest.java[example]
will use an in-memory based
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/processor/idempotent/MessageIdRepository.html[MessageIdRepository]
which can easily run out of memory and doesn't work in a clustered
environment. So you might prefer to use the JPA based implementation
which uses a database to store the message IDs which have been
processed\{snippet:id=idempotent|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-jpa/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/jpa/JpaIdempotentConsumerTest.java}In
the above
https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/camel/trunk/components/camel-jpa/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/jpa/JpaIdempotentConsumerTest.java[example]
we are using the header *messageId* to filter out duplicates and using
the collection *myProcessorName* to indicate the Message ID Repository
to use. This name is important as you could process the same message by
many different processors; so each may require its own logical Message
ID Repository.

For further examples of this pattern in use you could look at the
http://svn.apache.org/viewvc/camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/IdempotentConsumerTest.java?view=markup[junit
test case]

[[IdempotentConsumer-SpringXMLexample]]
Spring XML example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following example will use the header *myMessageId* to filter out
duplicates\{snippet:id=e1|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-spring/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/spring/processor/SpringIdempotentConsumerTest.xml}

[[IdempotentConsumer-Howtohandleduplicatemessagesintheroute]]
How to handle duplicate messages in the route
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.8*

You can now set the `skipDuplicate` option to `false` which instructs
the idempotent consumer to route duplicate messages as well. However the
duplicate message has been marked as duplicate by having a property on
the link:exchange.html[Exchange] set to true. We can leverage this fact
by using a link:content-based-router.html[Content Based Router] or
link:message-filter.html[Message Filter] to detect this and handle
duplicate messages.

For example in the following example we use the
link:message-filter.html[Message Filter] to send the message to a
duplicate endpoint, and then stop continue routing that
message.\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|title=Filter duplicate
messages|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/IdempotentConsumerTest.java}The
sample example in XML DSL would be:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=xml|title=Filter
duplicate
messages|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-spring/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/spring/processor/SpringIdempotentConsumerNoSkipDuplicateFilterTest.xml}

[[IdempotentConsumer-Howtohandleduplicatemessageinaclusteredenvironmentwithadatagrid]]
How to handle duplicate message in a clustered environment with a data
grid
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.8*

If you have running Camel in a clustered environment, a in memory
idempotent repository doesn't work (see above). You can setup either a
central database or use the idempotent consumer implementation based on
the http://www.hazelcast.com/[Hazelcast] data grid. Hazelcast finds the
nodes over multicast (which is default - configure Hazelcast for tcp-ip)
and creates automatically a map based repository:

java HazelcastIdempotentRepository idempotentRepo = new
HazelcastIdempotentRepository("myrepo");
from("direct:in").idempotentConsumer(header("messageId"),
idempotentRepo).to("mock:out");

You have to define how long the repository should hold each message id
(default is to delete it never). To avoid that you run out of memory you
should create an eviction strategy based on the
http://www.hazelcast.com/documentation.jsp#MapEviction[Hazelcast
configuration]. For additional information see
link:hazelcast-component.html[camel-hazelcast].

See this link:hazelcast-idempotent-repository-tutorial.html[little
tutorial], how setup such an idempotent repository on two cluster nodes
using Apache Karaf.

*Available as of Camel *2.13.0**

Another option for using Idempotent Consumer in a clustered environment
is Infinispan. Infinispan is a data grid with replication and
distribution clustering support. For additional information see
*link:infinispan.html[camel-infinispan]. +
*

link:using-this-pattern.html[Using This Pattern]
