[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[JPA-JPAComponent]]
JPA Component
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The *jpa* component enables you to store and retrieve Java objects from
persistent storage using EJB 3's Java Persistence Architecture (JPA),
which is a standard interface layer that wraps Object/Relational Mapping
(ORM) products such as OpenJPA, Hibernate, TopLink, and so on.

Maven users will need to add the following dependency to their `pom.xml`
for this component:

xml<dependency> <groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId>
<artifactId>camel-jpa</artifactId> <version>x.x.x</version> <!-- use the
same version as your Camel core version --> </dependency>

Sending to the endpoint

You can store a Java entity bean in a database by sending it to a JPA
producer endpoint. The body of the _In_ message is assumed to be an
entity bean (that is, a POJO with an
http://java.sun.com/javaee/5/docs/api/javax/persistence/Entity.html[@Entity]
annotation on it) or a collection or array of entity beans.

If the body is a List of entities, make sure to use
*entityType=java.util.ArrayList* as a configuration passed to the
producer endpoint.

If the body does not contain one of the previous listed types, put a
link:message-translator.html[Message Translator] in front of the
endpoint to perform the necessary conversion first.

From *Camel 2.19* onwards you can use *query*, *namedQuery* and
**nativeQuery **option for the producer as well to retrieve a set of
entities or execute bulk update/delete.

[[JPA-Consumingfromtheendpoint]]
Consuming from the endpoint
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Consuming messages from a JPA consumer endpoint removes (or updates)
entity beans in the database. This allows you to use a database table as
a logical queue: consumers take messages from the queue and then
delete/update them to logically remove them from the queue.

If you do not wish to delete the entity bean when it has been processed
(and when routing is done), you can specify `consumeDelete=false` on the
URI. This will result in the entity being processed each poll.

If you would rather perform some update on the entity to mark it as
processed (such as to exclude it from a future query) then you can
annotate a method with
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-jpa/apidocs/org/apache/camel/component/jpa/Consumed.html[@Consumed]
which will be invoked on your entity bean when the entity bean when it
has been processed (and when routing is done).

From *Camel 2.13* onwards you can use
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-jpa/apidocs/org/apache/camel/component/jpa/PreConsumed.html[@PreConsumed]
which will be invoked on your entity bean before it has been processed
(before routing).

If you are consuming a lot (100K+) of rows and experience OutOfMemory
problems you should set the maximumResults to sensible value.

*Note:* Since *Camel 2.18*, JPA now includes a `JpaPollingConsumer`
implementation that better supports Content Enricher using
`pollEnrich()` to do an on-demand poll that returns either none, one or
a list of entities as the result.

 

[[JPA-URIformat]]
URI format
^^^^^^^^^^

jpa:entityClassName[?options]

For sending to the endpoint, the _entityClassName_ is optional. If
specified, it helps the link:type-converter.html[Type Converter] to
ensure the body is of the correct type.

For consuming, the _entityClassName_ is mandatory.

You can append query options to the URI in the following format,
`?option=value&option=value&...`

[[JPA-Options]]
Options
^^^^^^^

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Name |Default Value |Description
|`entityType` |_entityClassName_ |Overrides the _entityClassName_ from
the URI.

|`persistenceUnit` |`camel` |The JPA persistence unit used by default.

|`consumeDelete` |`true` |*JPA consumer only:* If `true`, the entity is
deleted after it is consumed; if `false`, the entity is not deleted.

|`consumeLockEntity` |`true` |*JPA consumer only:* Specifies whether or
not to set an exclusive lock on each entity bean while processing the
results from polling.

|`flushOnSend` |`true` |*JPA producer only:* Flushes the
http://java.sun.com/javaee/5/docs/api/javax/persistence/EntityManager.html[EntityManager]
after the entity bean has been persisted.

|`maximumResults` |`-1` |*JPA consumer only:* Set the maximum number of
results to retrieve on the
http://java.sun.com/javaee/5/docs/api/javax/persistence/Query.html[Query].
**Camel 2.19:** it's also used for the producer when it executes a
query.

|`transactionManager` |`null` |This option is
link:registry.html[Registry] based which requires the `#` notation so
that the given `transactionManager` being specified can be looked up
properly, e.g. `transactionManager=#myTransactionManager`. It specifies
the transaction manager to use. If none provided, Camel will use a
`JpaTransactionManager` by default. Can be used to set a JTA transaction
manager (for integration with an EJB container).

|`consumer.delay` |`500` |*JPA consumer only:* Delay in milliseconds
between each poll.

|`consumer.initialDelay` |`1000` |*JPA consumer only:* Milliseconds
before polling starts.

|`consumer.useFixedDelay` |`false` |*JPA consumer only:* Set to `true`
to use fixed delay between polls, otherwise fixed rate is used. See
http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/api/java/util/concurrent/ScheduledExecutorService.html[ScheduledExecutorService]
in JDK for details.

|`maxMessagesPerPoll` |`0` |*JPA consumer only:* An integer value to
define the maximum number of messages to gather per poll. By default, no
maximum is set. Can be used to avoid polling many thousands of messages
when starting up the server. Set a value of 0 or negative to disable.

|`consumer.query` |  |*JPA consumer only:* To use a custom query when
consuming data.

|`consumer.namedQuery` |  |*JPA consumer only:* To use a named query
when consuming data.

|`consumer.nativeQuery` |  |*JPA consumer only:* To use a custom native
query when consuming data. You may want to use the option
`consumer.resultClass` also when using native queries.

|`consumer.parameters` |  |*Camel 2.12: JPA consumer only:* This option
is link:registry.html[Registry] based which requires the `#` notation.
This key/value mapping is used for building the query parameters. It's
is expected to be of the generic type `java.util.Map<String, Object>`
where the keys are the named parameters of a given JPA query and the
values are their corresponding effective values you want to select for.

|`consumer.resultClass` |  |*Camel 2.7: JPA consumer only:* Defines the
type of the returned payload (we will call
`entityManager.createNativeQuery(nativeQuery, resultClass)` instead of
`entityManager.createNativeQuery(nativeQuery)`). Without this option, we
will return an object array. Only has an affect when using in
conjunction with native query when consuming data.

|`consumer.transacted` |`false` |*Camel 2.7.5/2.8.3/2.9: JPA consumer
only:* Whether to run the consumer in transacted mode, by which all
messages will either commit or rollback, when the entire batch has been
processed. The default behavior (false) is to commit all the previously
successfully processed messages, and only rollback the last failed
message.

|`consumer.lockModeType` |`WRITE` |*Camel 2.11.2/2.12:* To configure the
lock mode on the consumer. The possible values is defined in the enum
`javax.persistence.LockModeType`. The default value is changed to
`PESSIMISTIC_WRITE` since *Camel 2.13*.

|`consumer.SkipLockedEntity` |`false` |*Camel 2.13:* To configure
whether to use NOWAIT on lock and silently skip the entity.

|`usePersist` |`false` |*Camel 2.5: JPA producer only:* Indicates to use
`entityManager.persist(entity)` instead of
`entityManager.merge(entity)`. Note: `entityManager.persist(entity)`
doesn't work for detached entities (where the EntityManager has to
execute an UPDATE instead of an INSERT query)!

|`joinTransaction` |`true` |*Camel 2.12.3:* camel-jpa will join
transaction by default from Camel 2.12 onwards. You can use this option
to turn this off, for example if you use LOCAL_RESOURCE and join
transaction doesn't work with your JPA provider. This option can also be
set globally on the `JpaComponent`, instead of having to set it on all
endpoints.

|usePassedInEntityManager |false a|
*Camel 2.12.4/2.13.1 JPA producer only:* If set to true, then Camel will
use the EntityManager from the header

JpaConstants.ENTITYMANAGER instead of the configured entity manager on
the component/endpoint. This allows end users to control which entity
manager will be in use.

|sharedEntityManager |false |*Camel 2.16:* whether to use spring's
SharedEntityManager for the consumer/producer. A good idea may be to set
joinTransaction=false if this option is true, as sharing the entity
manager and mixing transactions is not a good idea. 

|query |  |To use a custom query. *Camel 2.19:* it can be used for
producer as well.

|namedQuery |  |To use a named query. *Camel 2.19:* it can be used for
producer as well.

|nativeQuery |  |To use a custom native query. You may want to use the
option `resultClass` also when using native queries. **Camel 2.19:** it
can be used for producer as well.

|parameters |  |This option is link:registry.html[Registry] based which
requires the `#` notation. This key/value mapping is used for building
the query parameters. It is expected to be of the generic type
`java.util.Map<String, Object>` where the keys are the named parameters
of a given JPA query and the values are their corresponding effective
values you want to select for. **Camel 2.19:** it can be used for
producer as well. When it's used for producer, link:simple.html[Simple]
expression can be used as a parameter value. It allows you to retrieve
parameter values from the message body header and etc.

|resultClass |  |Defines the type of the returned payload (we will call
`entityManager.createNativeQuery(nativeQuery, resultClass)` instead of
`entityManager.createNativeQuery(nativeQuery)`). Without this option, we
will return an object array. Only has an affect when using in
conjunction with native query. **Camel 2.19:** it can be used for
producer as well.

|useExecuteUpdate |  |**Camel 2.19: JPA producer only:** To configure
whether to use executeUpdate() when producer executes a query. When you
use INSERT, UPDATE or DELETE statement as a named query, you need to
specify this option to 'true'.
|=======================================================================

[[JPA-MessageHeaders]]
Message Headers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Camel adds the following message headers to the exchange:

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Header |Type |Description
|`CamelJpaTemplate` |`JpaTemplate` |*Not supported anymore since Camel
2.12:* The `JpaTemplate` object that is used to access the entity bean.
You need this object in some situations, for instance in a type
converter or when you are doing some custom processing. See
https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/CAMEL-5932[CAMEL-5932] for the
reason why the support for this header has been dropped.

|`CamelEntityManager` |`EntityManager` |*Camel 2.12: JPA consumer /
Camel 2.12.2: JPA producer:* The JPA `EntityManager` object being used
by `JpaConsumer` or `JpaProducer`.
|=======================================================================

[[JPA-ConfiguringEntityManagerFactory]]
Configuring EntityManagerFactory
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Its strongly advised to configure the JPA component to use a specific
`EntityManagerFactory` instance. If failed to do so each `JpaEndpoint`
will auto create their own instance of `EntityManagerFactory` which most
often is not what you want.

For example, you can instantiate a JPA component that references the
`myEMFactory` entity manager factory, as follows:

xml<bean id="jpa" class="org.apache.camel.component.jpa.JpaComponent">
<property name="entityManagerFactory" ref="myEMFactory"/> </bean>

In *Camel 2.3* the `JpaComponent` will auto lookup the
`EntityManagerFactory` from the link:registry.html[Registry] which means
you do not need to configure this on the `JpaComponent` as shown above.
You only need to do so if there is ambiguity, in which case Camel will
log a WARN.

[[JPA-ConfiguringTransactionManager]]
Configuring TransactionManager
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Since *Camel 2.3* the `JpaComponent` will auto lookup the
`TransactionManager` from the link:registry.html[Registry.] If Camel
won't find any `TransactionManager` instance registered, it will also
look up for the `TransactionTemplate` and try to
extract `TransactionManager` from it.

If none `TransactionTemplate` is available in the registry,
`JpaEndpoint` will auto create their own instance of
`TransactionManager` which most often is not what you want.

If more than single instance of the `TransactionManager` is found, Camel
will log a WARN. In such cases you might want to instantiate and
explicitly configure a JPA component that references the
`myTransactionManager` transaction manager, as follows:

xml<bean id="jpa" class="org.apache.camel.component.jpa.JpaComponent">
<property name="entityManagerFactory" ref="myEMFactory"/> <property
name="transactionManager" ref="myTransactionManager"/> </bean>

[[JPA-Usingaconsumerwithanamedquery]]
Using a consumer with a named query
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For consuming only selected entities, you can use the
`consumer.namedQuery` URI query option. First, you have to define the
named query in the JPA Entity class:

@Entity @NamedQuery(name = "step1", query = "select x from MultiSteps x
where x.step = 1") public class MultiSteps \{ ... }

After that you can define a consumer uri like this one:

from("jpa://org.apache.camel.examples.MultiSteps?consumer.namedQuery=step1")
.to("bean:myBusinessLogic");

[[JPA-Usingaconsumerwithaquery]]
Using a consumer with a query
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For consuming only selected entities, you can use the `consumer.query`
URI query option. You only have to define the query option:

from("jpa://org.apache.camel.examples.MultiSteps?consumer.query=select o
from org.apache.camel.examples.MultiSteps o where o.step = 1")
.to("bean:myBusinessLogic");

[[JPA-Usingaconsumerwithanativequery]]
Using a consumer with a native query
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For consuming only selected entities, you can use the
`consumer.nativeQuery` URI query option. You only have to define the
native query option:

from("jpa://org.apache.camel.examples.MultiSteps?consumer.nativeQuery=select
* from MultiSteps where step = 1") .to("bean:myBusinessLogic");

If you use the native query option, you will receive an object array in
the message body.

 

[[JPA-Usingaproducerwithanamedquery]]
Using a producer with a named query
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For retrieving selected entities or execute bulk update/delete, you can
use the `namedQuery` URI query option. First, you have to define the
named query in the JPA Entity class:

@Entity @NamedQuery(name = "step1", query = "select x from MultiSteps x
where x.step = 1") public class MultiSteps \{ ... }

After that you can define a producer uri like this one:

from("direct:namedQuery")
.to("jpa://org.apache.camel.examples.MultiSteps?namedQuery=step1");

[[JPA-Usingaproducerwithaquery]]
Using a producer with a query
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For retrieving selected entities or execute bulk update/delete, you can
use the `query` URI query option. You only have to define the query
option:

from("direct:query")
.to("jpa://org.apache.camel.examples.MultiSteps?query=select o from
org.apache.camel.examples.MultiSteps o where o.step = 1");

[[JPA-Usingaproducerwithanativequery]]
Using a producer with a native query
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For retrieving selected entities or execute bulk update/delete, you can
use the `nativeQuery` URI query option. You only have to define the
native query option:

from("direct:nativeQuery")
.to("jpa://org.apache.camel.examples.MultiSteps?resultClass=org.apache.camel.examples.MultiSteps&nativeQuery=select
* from MultiSteps where step = 1");

If you use the native query option without specifying _resultClass_, you
will receive an object array in the message body.

 

[[JPA-Example]]
Example
^^^^^^^

See link:tracer-example.html[Tracer Example] for an example using
link:jpa.html[JPA] to store traced messages into a database.

[[JPA-UsingtheJPAbasedidempotentrepository]]
Using the JPA based idempotent repository
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In this section we will use the JPA based idempotent repository.

First we need to setup a `persistence-unit` in the persistence.xml
file:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-jpa/src/test/resources/META-INF/persistence.xml}Second
we have to setup a `org.springframework.orm.jpa.JpaTemplate` which is
used by the
`org.apache.camel.processor.idempotent.jpa.JpaMessageIdRepository`:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-jpa/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/processor/jpa/spring.xml}Afterwards
we can configure our
`org.apache.camel.processor.idempotent.jpa.JpaMessageIdRepository`:\{snippet:id=jpaStore|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-jpa/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/processor/jpa/fileConsumerJpaIdempotentTest-config.xml}And
finally we can create our JPA idempotent repository in the spring XML
file as well:

xml<camelContext xmlns="http://camel.apache.org/schema/spring"> <route
id="JpaMessageIdRepositoryTest"> <from uri="direct:start" />
<idempotentConsumer messageIdRepositoryRef="jpaStore">
<header>messageId</header> <to uri="mock:result" />
</idempotentConsumer> </route> </camelContext> When running this Camel
component tests inside your IDE

In case you run the
https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/camel/trunk/components/camel-jpa/src/test[tests
of this component] directly inside your IDE (and not necessarily through
Maven itself) then you could spot exceptions like:

javaorg.springframework.transaction.CannotCreateTransactionException:
Could not open JPA EntityManager for transaction; nested exception is
<openjpa-2.2.1-r422266:1396819 nonfatal user error>
org.apache.openjpa.persistence.ArgumentException: This configuration
disallows runtime optimization, but the following listed types were not
enhanced at build time or at class load time with a javaagent:
"org.apache.camel.examples.SendEmail". at
org.springframework.orm.jpa.JpaTransactionManager.doBegin(JpaTransactionManager.java:427)
at
org.springframework.transaction.support.AbstractPlatformTransactionManager.getTransaction(AbstractPlatformTransactionManager.java:371)
at
org.springframework.transaction.support.TransactionTemplate.execute(TransactionTemplate.java:127)
at
org.apache.camel.processor.jpa.JpaRouteTest.cleanupRepository(JpaRouteTest.java:96)
at
org.apache.camel.processor.jpa.JpaRouteTest.createCamelContext(JpaRouteTest.java:67)
at
org.apache.camel.test.junit4.CamelTestSupport.doSetUp(CamelTestSupport.java:238)
at
org.apache.camel.test.junit4.CamelTestSupport.setUp(CamelTestSupport.java:208)

The problem here is that the source has been compiled/recompiled through
your IDE and not through Maven itself which would
https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/camel/trunk/components/camel-jpa/pom.xml[enhance
the byte-code at build time]. To overcome this you would need to enable
http://openjpa.apache.org/entity-enhancement.html#dynamic-enhancement[dynamic
byte-code enhancement of OpenJPA]. As an example assuming the current
OpenJPA version being used in Camel itself is 2.2.1, then as running the
tests inside your favorite IDE you would need to pass the following
argument to the JVM:

-javaagent:<path_to_your_local_m2_cache>/org/apache/openjpa/openjpa/2.2.1/openjpa-2.2.1.jar

Then it will all become green again
image:https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/s/en_GB/5997/6f42626d00e36f53fe51440403446ca61552e2a2.1/_/images/icons/emoticons/smile.png[(smile)]

link:endpoint-see-also.html[Endpoint See Also]

* link:tracer-example.html[Tracer Example]
