[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[JSON-JSON]]
JSON
~~~~

JSON is a link:data-format.html[Data Format] to marshal and unmarshal
Java objects to and from http://www.json.org/[JSON].

For JSON to object marshalling, Camel provides integration with three
popular JSON libraries:

* The http://xstream.codehaus.org/[XStream library] and
http://jettison.codehaus.org/[Jettsion]
* The https://github.com/FasterXML/jackson[Jackson library]
* *Camel 2.10:* The http://code.google.com/p/google-gson/[GSon library]

Every library requires adding the special camel component (see
"Dependency..." paragraphs further down). By default Camel uses the
XStream library.

Direct, bi-directional JSON <=> XML conversions

As of Camel 2.10, Camel supports direct, bi-directional JSON <=> XML
conversions via the link:xmljson.html[camel-xmljson] data format, which
is documented separately.

[[JSON-UsingJSONDataFormatWiththeXStreamLibrary]]
Using JSON Data Format With the `XStream` Library
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

java// Let's turn Object messages into JSON then send to MQSeries
from("activemq:My.Queue") .marshal().json()
.to("mqseries:Another.Queue");

[[JSON-UsingJSONDataFormatWiththeJacksonLibrary]]
Using JSON Data Format With the `Jackson` Library
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

java// Let's turn Object messages into JSON then send to MQSeries
from("activemq:My.Queue") .marshal().json(JsonLibrary.Jackson)
.to("mqseries:Another.Queue");

[[JSON-UsingJSONDataFormatWiththeGSONLibrary]]
Using JSON Data Format With the GSON Library
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

java// Let's turn Object messages into JSON then send to MQSeries
from("activemq:My.Queue") .marshal().json(JsonLibrary.Gson)
.to("mqseries:Another.Queue");

[[JSON-UsingJSONinSpringDSL]]
Using JSON in Spring DSL
++++++++++++++++++++++++

When using link:data-format.html[Data Format] in Spring DSL you need to
declare the data formats first. This is done in the *`DataFormats`* XML
tag.

xml<dataFormats> <!-- Here we define a Json data format with the id jack
and that it should use the TestPojo as the class type when doing
unmarshal. The unmarshalTypeName is optional, if not provided Camel will
use a Map as the type. --> <json id="jack" library="Jackson"
unmarshalTypeName="org.apache.camel.component.jackson.TestPojo"/>
</dataFormats>

And then you can refer to this id in the route:

xml<route> <from uri="direct:back"/> <unmarshal ref="jack"/> <to
uri="mock:reverse"/> </route>

[[JSON-ExcludingPOJOFieldsFromMarshalling]]
Excluding POJO Fields From Marshalling
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*As of Camel 2.10* +
When marshaling a POJO to JSON you might want to exclude certain fields
from the JSON output. With Jackson you can use
http://wiki.fasterxml.com/JacksonJsonViews[JSON views] to accomplish
this.

First create one or more marker
classes:\{snippet:id=marker|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-jackson/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/jackson/Views.java}Second,
use the marker classes with the *`@JsonView`* annotation to
include/exclude certain fields. The annotation also works on
getters:\{snippet:id=jsonview|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-jackson/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/jackson/TestPojoView.java}Finally,
use the Camel *`JacksonDataFormat`* to marshal the above POJO to
JSON.\{snippet:id=format|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-jackson/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/jackson/JacksonMarshalViewTest.java}*Note*:
the height field is missing in the resulting JSON.

\{"age":30, "weight":70}

The GSON library supports a similar feature through the notion of
http://google-gson.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/gson/docs/javadocs/com/google/gson/ExclusionStrategy.html[ExclusionStrategies]:\{snippet:id=strategy|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-gson/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/gson/GsonMarshalExclusionTest.java}The
*`GsonDataFormat`* accepts an *`ExclusionStrategy`* in its
constructor:\{snippet:id=format|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-gson/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/gson/GsonMarshalExclusionTest.java}The
line above will exclude fields annotated with *`@ExcludeAge`* when
marshaling to JSON.

[[JSON-ConfiguringFieldNamingPolicy]]
Configuring Field Naming Policy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.11*

The GSON library supports specifying policies and strategies for mapping
from JSON to POJO fields. A common naming convention is to map JSON
fields using lower case with underscores.

We may have this JSON string

\{ "id" : 123, "first_name" : "Donald" "last_name" : "Duck" }

Which we want to map to a POJO that has getter/setters as:

javaPersonPojo.javaPersonPojo.javapublic class PersonPojo \{ private int
id; private String firstName; private String lastName; public int
getId() \{ return id; } public void setId(int id) \{ this.id = id; }
public String getFirstName() \{ return firstName; } public void
setFirstName(String firstName) \{ this.firstName = firstName; } public
String getLastName() \{ return lastName; } public void
setLastName(String lastName) \{ this.lastName = lastName; } }

Then we can configure the
*`org.apache.camel.component.gson.GsonDataFormat`* in a Spring XML files
as shown below. Notice we use *`fieldNamingPolicy`* property to set the
field mapping. This property is an enum from GSon
*`com.google.gson.FieldNamingPolicy`* which has a number of predefined
mappings.

If you need full control you can use the property
*`FieldNamingStrategy`* and implement a custom
*`com.google.gson.FieldNamingStrategy`* where you can control the
mapping.

Configuring GsonDataFormat in Spring XML filexmlConfiguring
GsonDataFromat in Spring XML file<!-- define the gson data format, where
we configure the data format using the properties --> <bean id="gson"
class="org.apache.camel.component.gson.GsonDataFormat"> <!-- we want to
unmarshal to person pojo --> <property name="unmarshalType"
value="org.apache.camel.component.gson.PersonPojo"/> <!-- we want to map
fields to use lower case and underscores --> <property
name="fieldNamingPolicy" value="LOWER_CASE_WITH_UNDERSCORES"/> </bean>

And use it in Camel routes by referring to its bean id as shown:

Using gson from Camel routesxmlUsing gson from Camel Routes<camelContext
xmlns="http://camel.apache.org/schema/spring"> <route> <from
uri="direct:inPojo"/> <marshal ref="gson"/> </route> <route> <from
uri="direct:backPojo"/> <unmarshal ref="gson"/> </route> </camelContext>

[[JSON-Include/ExcludeFieldsUsingthejsonViewAttributeWithJacksonDataFormat]]
Include/Exclude Fields Using the *`jsonView`* Attribute With
`JacksonDataFormat`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.12*

As an example of using this attribute you can instead of:

javaJacksonDataFormat ageViewFormat = new
JacksonDataFormat(TestPojoView.class, Views.Age.class);
from("direct:inPojoAgeView") .marshal(ageViewFormat);

Directly specify your http://wiki.fasterxml.com/JacksonJsonViews[JSON
view] inside the Java DSL as:

javafrom("direct:inPojoAgeView") .marshal().json(TestPojoView.class,
Views.Age.class);

And the same in XML DSL:

xml<from uri="direct:inPojoAgeView"/> <marshal> <json library="Jackson"
unmarshalTypeName="org.apache.camel.component.jackson.TestPojoView"
jsonView="org.apache.camel.component.jackson.Views$Age"/> </marshal>

[[JSON-SettingSerializationIncludeOptionforJacksonMarshal]]
Setting Serialization Include Option for Jackson Marshal
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.13.3/2.14*

If you want to marshal a POJO to JSON, and the POJO has some fields with
null values. And you want to skip these null values, then you need to
set either an annotation on the POJO, 

java@JsonInclude(Include.NON_NULL) public class MyPojo \{ // ... }

But this requires you to include that annotation in your POJO source
code. You can also configure the Camel *`JsonDataFormat`* to set the
include option, as shown below:

javaJacksonDataFormat format = new JacksonDataFormat();
format.setInclude("NON_NULL");

Or from XML DSL you configure this as

xml<dataFormats> <json id="json" library="Jackson" include="NON_NULL"/>
</dataFormats>

[[JSON-UnmarshalingfromJSONtoPOJOwithDynamicClassName]]
Unmarshaling from JSON to POJO with Dynamic Class Name
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.14*

If you use Jackson to unmarshal JSON to POJO, then you can now specify a
header in the message that indicate which class name to unmarshal to.
The header has key **`CamelJacksonUnmarshalType`** if that header is
present in the message, then Jackson will use that as FQN for the POJO
class to unmarshal the JSON payload as. Notice that behavior is enabled
out of the box from *Camel 2.14*. 

 For JMS end users there is the *`JMSType`* header from the JMS spec
that indicates that also. To enable support for *`JMSType`* you would
need to turn that on, on the Jackson data format as shown:

javaJacksonDataFormat format = new JacksonDataFormat();
format.setAllowJmsType(true);

Or from XML DSL you configure this as

xml<dataFormats> <json id="json" library="Jackson" allowJmsType="true"/>
</dataFormats>

[[JSON-UnmarshalingFromJSONtoList<Map>orList<pojo>]]
Unmarshaling From JSON to `List<Map>` or `List<pojo>`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.14*

If you are using Jackson to unmarshal JSON to a list of map/POJO, you
can now specify this by setting *`useList="true"`* or use
the *`org.apache.camel.component.jackson.ListJacksonDataFormat`*.

For example, with Java you can do as shown below:

javaJacksonDataFormat format = new ListJacksonDataFormat(); // or
JacksonDataFormat format = new JacksonDataFormat(); format.useList(); //
and you can specify the pojo class type also
format.setUnmarshalType(MyPojo.class);

And if you use XML DSL then you configure to use list using `useList`
attribute as shown below:

xml<dataFormats> <json id="json" library="Jackson" useList="true"/>
</dataFormats>

And you can specify the pojo type also

xml<dataFormats> <json id="json" library="Jackson" useList="true"
unmarshalTypeName="com.foo.MyPojo"/> </dataFormats>

[[JSON-UsingCustomJackson'sObjectMapper]]
Using Custom Jackson's `ObjectMapper`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available from Camel 2.17*

You can use custom Jackson *`ObjectMapper`* instance, can be configured
as shown below.

xml<dataFormats> <json id="json" library="Jackson"
objectMapper="myMapper"/> </dataFormats>

Where *`myMapper`* is the id of the custom instance that Camel will
lookup in the link:registry.html[Registry.]

[[JSON-UsingCustomJacksonModules]]
Using Custom Jackson Modules
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.15*

You can use custom Jackson modules by specifying the class names of
those using the *`moduleClassNames`* option as shown below.

xml<dataFormats> <json id="json" library="Jackson" useList="true"
unmarshalTypeName="com.foo.MyPojo"
moduleClassNames="com.foo.MyModule,com.foo.MyOtherModule"/>
</dataFormats>

When using *`moduleClassNames`* then the custom Jackson modules are not
configured, by created using default constructor and used as-is. If a
custom module needs any custom configuration, then an instance of the
module can be created and configured, and then use *`modulesRefs`* to
refer to the module as shown below:

xml<bean id="myJacksonModule" class="com.foo.MyModule"> ... // configure
the module as you want </bean>   <dataFormats> <json id="json"
library="Jackson" useList="true" unmarshalTypeName="com.foo.MyPojo"
moduleRefs="myJacksonModule"/> </dataFormats>

 Multiple modules can be specified separated by comma, such as
*`moduleRefs="myJacksonModule,myOtherModule"`*.

[[JSON-EnablingorDisableFeaturesUsingJackson]]
Enabling or Disable Features Using Jackson
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.15*

Jackson has a number of features you can enable or disable, which
its *`ObjectMapper`* uses. For example to disable failing on unknown
properties when marshaling, you can configure this using the
*`disableFeatures`*:

xml<dataFormats> <json id="json" library="Jackson"
unmarshalTypeName="com.foo.MyPojo"
disableFeatures="FAIL_ON_UNKNOWN_PROPERTIES"/> </dataFormats>

You can disable multiple features by separating the values using comma.
The values for the features must be the name of the enums from Jackson
from the following enum classes

* `com.fasterxml.jackson.databind.SerializationFeature`
* `com.fasterxml.jackson.databind.DeserializationFeature`
* `com.fasterxml.jackson.databind.MapperFeature`

To enable a feature use the *`enableFeatures`* options instead.

From Java code you can use the type safe methods from *`camel-jackson`*
module:

javaJacksonDataFormat df = new JacksonDataFormat(MyPojo.class);
df.disableFeature(DeserializationFeature.FAIL_ON_UNKNOWN_PROPERTIES);
df.disableFeature(DeserializationFeature.FAIL_ON_NULL_FOR_PRIMITIVES);

[[JSON-ConvertingMapstoPOJOUsingJackson]]
Converting Maps to POJO Using Jackson
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Available since *Camel 2.16*. Jackson *`ObjectMapper`* can be used to
convert maps to POJO objects. Jackson component comes with the data
converter that can be used to convert *`java.util.Map`* instance to
non-String, non-primitive and non-Number objects.

javaMap<String, Object> invoiceData = new HashMap<String, Object>();
invoiceData.put("netValue", 500);
producerTemplate.sendBody("direct:mapToInvoice", invoiceData); ... //
Later in the processor Invoice invoice =
exchange.getIn().getBody(Invoice.class);

If there is a single *`ObjectMapper`* instance available in the Camel
registry, it will used by the converter to perform the conversion.
Otherwise the default mapper will be used.  

[[JSON-FormattedJSONmarshalling(pretty-printing)]]
Formatted JSON marshalling (pretty-printing)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.16*

Using the *`prettyPrint`* option one can output a well formatted JSON
while marshaling:

xml<dataFormats> <json id="xstream" prettyPrint="true"/> <json
id="jackson" prettyPrint="true" library="Jackson"/> <json id="gson"
prettyPrint="true" library="Gson"/> </dataFormats>

And in Java DSL:

javafrom("direct:inPretty").marshal().json(true);  
from("direct:inPretty").marshal().json(JsonLibrary.Jackson, true);  
from("direct:inPretty").marshal().json(JsonLibrary.Gson, true);

Please note that as of Camel 2.16 there are five different overloaded
*`json()`* DSL methods which support the *`prettyPrint`* option in
combination with other settings for *`JsonLibrary`*, *`unmarshalType`*,
*`jsonView`* etc. 

[[JSON-IntegratingJacksonwithCamel'sTypeConverters]]
 Integrating Jackson with Camel's TypeConverters
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

[[JSON-AvailableasofCamel2.17]]
 **Available as of Camel 2.17**
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The *`camel-jackson`* module allows to integrate Jackson as
a link:type-converter.html[Type Converter] in the Camel registry. This
works in similar ways that *`camel-jaxb`* integrates with the type
converter as well. However *`camel-jackson`* must be explicit enabled,
which is done by setting some options on the *`CamelContext`*
properties, as shown below:

java// Enable Jackson JSON type converter.
getContext().getProperties().put("CamelJacksonEnableTypeConverter",
"true"); // Allow Jackson JSON to convert to pojo types also (by default
Jackson only converts to String and other simple types).
getContext().getProperties().put("CamelJacksonTypeConverterToPojo",
"true");

The *`camel-jackson`* type converter integrates with JAXB which means
you can annotate POJO class with JAXB annotations that Jackson can
leverage. 

[[JSON-DependenciesforXStream]]
Dependencies for XStream
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To use JSON in your camel routes you need to add the a dependency
on *`camel-xstream`* which implements this data format.

If you use maven you could just add the following to your *`pom.xml`*,
substituting the version number for the latest & greatest release (see
link:download.html[the download page for the latest versions]).

xml<dependency> <groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId>
<artifactId>camel-xstream</artifactId> <version>2.9.2</version>
</dependency>

[[JSON-DependenciesforJackson]]
Dependencies for Jackson
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To use JSON in your camel routes you need to add the a dependency
on *`camel-jackson`* which implements this data format.

If you use maven you could just add the following to your *`pom.xml`*,
substituting the version number for the latest & greatest release (see
link:download.html[the download page for the latest versions]).

xml<dependency> <groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId>
<artifactId>camel-jackson</artifactId> <version>2.9.2</version>
</dependency>

[[JSON-DependenciesforGSON]]
Dependencies for GSON
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To use JSON in your camel routes you need to add the a dependency
on *`camel-gson`* which implements this data format.

If you use maven you could just add the following to your *`pom.xml`*,
substituting the version number for the latest & greatest release (see
link:download.html[the download page for the latest versions]).

xml<dependency> <groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId>
<artifactId>camel-gson</artifactId> <version>2.10.0</version>
</dependency>
