[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[Kubernetes-KubernetesComponent]]
Kubernetes Component
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*Available as of Camel 2.17*

The *Kubernetes* component is a component for integrating your
application with Kubernetes standalone or on top of Openshift. 

Maven users will need to add the following dependency to
their `pom.xml` for this component:

[source,brush:,java;,gutter:,false;,theme:,Default]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId>
    <artifactId>camel-kubernetes</artifactId>
    <version>x.x.x</version>
    <!-- use the same version as your Camel core version -->
</dependency>
----

[[Kubernetes-URIformat]]
URI format
^^^^^^^^^^

[source,brush:,java;,gutter:,false;,theme:,Default]
----
kubernetes:masterUrl[?options]
----

You can append query options to the URI in the following
format, `?option=value&option=value&...`

From *Camel 2.18*: The secrets consumer doesn't exists anymore.

[[Kubernetes-Options]]
Options
^^^^^^^

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Name |Default Value |Description
|`masterUrl` |`null` |*Mandatory:* The Kubernetes master URL

|`category` |  |*Mandatory*: The category of producer/consumer. Possible
values: namespaces, services, replicationControllers, pods,
persistentVolumes, persistentVolumesClaims, secrets, resourcesQuota,
serviceAccounts, nodes, configMaps, builds, buildConfigs

|`username` |  |The username for login to Kubernetes cluster

|`password` |  |The password for login to Kubernetes cluster

|`operation` |  a|
*Producer only:* The operation that producer will do. Possible values:

listNamespaces,listNamespacesByLabels,getNamespace,createNamespace,deleteNamespace,listServices,listServicesByLabels,getService,createService,deleteService,listReplicationControllers,
listReplicationControllersByLabels,getReplicationController,createReplicationController,deleteReplicationController,scaleReplicationController,listPods,
listPodsByLabels,getPod,createPod,deletePod,listPersistentVolumes,listPersistentVolumesByLabels,getPersistentVolume,listPersistentVolumesClaims,listPersistentVolumesClaimsByLabels,
getPersistentVolumeClaim,createPersistentVolumeClaim,deletePersistentVolumeClaim,listSecrets,listSecretsByLabels,getSecret,createSecret,deleteSecret,listResourcesQuota,
listResourcesQuotaByLabels,getResourceQuota,createResourceQuota,deleteResourceQuota,listServiceAccounts,listServiceAccountsByLabels,getServiceAccount,createServiceAccount,
deleteServiceAccount,listNodes,listNodesByLabels,getNode,listConfigMaps,listConfigMapsByLabels,getConfigMap,createConfigMap,deleteConfigMap,listBuilds,listBuildsByLabels,getBuild,listBuildConfigs,listBuildConfigsByLabels,getBuildConfig

|`apiVersion` |  |The api Version to use

|`caCertFile` |  |Path to CA cert file

|`caCertData` |  |Path to CA cert data

|`clientCertFile` |  |Path to client cert file

|`clientCertData` |  |Path to client cert data

|`clientKeyAlgo` |  |Key algorithm used by client

|`clientKeyFile` |  |Path to client key file

|`clientKeyData` |  |Path to client key data

|`clientKeyPassphrase` |  |Client key passphrase

|oauthToken |  |Authorization token

|trustCerts |  |Define if the certs are trusted by default

|namespaceName |  |**Consumer only:** The namespace the consumer will
watch

|poolSize |  |**Consumer only:** The Threadpool size for the Kubernetes
consumer

|namespace |  |**Consumer only:** The Namespace to watch for the
consumer

|labelKey |  |**Consumer only:** The label key to watch for the consumer

|labelValue |  |**Consumer only:** The label value to watch for the
consumer

|resourceName |  |**Consumer only:** The resource name to watch for the
consumer
|=======================================================================

[[Kubernetes-Headers]]
Headers
^^^^^^^

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Name |Type |Description
|CamelKubernetesOperation |String |The Producer operation

|CamelKubernetesNamespaceName |String |The Namespace name

|CamelKubernetesNamespaceLabels |Map |The Namespace Labels

|CamelKubernetesServiceLabels |Map |The Service labels

|CamelKubernetesServiceName |String |The Service name

|CamelKubernetesServiceSpec |io.fabric8.kubernetes.api.model.ServiceSpec
|The Spec for a Service

|CamelKubernetesReplicationControllersLabels |Map |Replication
controller labels

|CamelKubernetesReplicationControllerName |String |Replication
controller name

|CamelKubernetesReplicationControllerSpec
|io.fabric8.kubernetes.api.model.ReplicationControllerSpec |The Spec for
a Replication Controller

|CamelKubernetesReplicationControllerReplicas |Integer |The number of
replicas for a Replication Controller during the Scale operation

|CamelKubernetesPodsLabels |Map |Pod labels

|CamelKubernetesPodName |String |Pod name

|CamelKubernetesPodSpec |io.fabric8.kubernetes.api.model.PodSpec |The
Spec for a Pod

|CamelKubernetesPersistentVolumesLabels |Map |Persistent Volume labels

|CamelKubernetesPersistentVolumesName |String |Persistent Volume name

|CamelKubernetesPersistentVolumesClaimsLabels |Map |Persistent Volume
Claim labels

|CamelKubernetesPersistentVolumesClaimsName |String |Persistent Volume
Claim name

|CamelKubernetesPersistentVolumesClaimsSpec
|io.fabric8.kubernetes.api.model.PersistentVolumeClaimSpec |The Spec for
a Persistent Volume claim

|CamelKubernetesSecretsLabels |Map |Secret labels

|CamelKubernetesSecretsName |String |Secret name

|CamelKubernetesSecret |io.fabric8.kubernetes.api.model.Secret |A Secret
Object

|CamelKubernetesResourcesQuotaLabels |Map |Resource Quota labels

|CamelKubernetesResourcesQuotaName |String |Resource Quota name

|CamelKubernetesResourceQuotaSpec
|io.fabric8.kubernetes.api.model.ResourceQuotaSpec |The Spec for a
Resource Quota

|CamelKubernetesServiceAccountsLabels |Map |Service Account labels

|CamelKubernetesServiceAccountName |String |Service Account name

|CamelKubernetesServiceAccount
|io.fabric8.kubernetes.api.model.ServiceAccount |A Service Account
object

|CamelKubernetesNodesLabels |Map |Node labels

|CamelKubernetesNodeName |String |Node name

|CamelKubernetesBuildsLabels |Map |Openshift Build labels

|CamelKubernetesBuildName |String |Openshift Build name

|CamelKubernetesBuildConfigsLabels |Map |Openshift Build Config labels

|CamelKubernetesBuildConfigName |String |Openshift Build Config name

|CamelKubernetesEventAction |io.fabric8.kubernetes.client.Watcher.Action
|Action watched by the consumer

|CamelKubernetesEventTimestamp |String |Timestamp of the action watched
by the consumer

|CamelKubernetesConfigMapName |String |ConfigMap name

|CamelKubernetesConfigMapsLabels |Map |ConfigMap labels

|CamelKubernetesConfigData |Map |ConfigMap Data
|=======================================================================
