[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[LoadBalancer-LoadBalancer]]
Load Balancer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Load Balancer Pattern allows you to delegate to one of a number of
endpoints using a variety of different load balancing policies.

[[LoadBalancer-Built-inloadbalancingpolicies]]
Built-in load balancing policies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Camel provides the following policies out-of-the-box:

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Policy |Description
|http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/processor/loadbalancer/RoundRobinLoadBalancer.html[Round
Robin] |The exchanges are selected from in a round robin fashion. This
is a well known and classic policy, which spreads the load evenly.

|http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/processor/loadbalancer/RandomLoadBalancer.html[Random]
|A random endpoint is selected for each exchange.

|http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/processor/loadbalancer/StickyLoadBalancer.html[Sticky]
|Sticky load balancing using an Expression to calculate a correlation
key to perform the sticky load balancing; rather like jsessionid in the
web or JMSXGroupID in JMS.

|http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/processor/loadbalancer/TopicLoadBalancer.html[Topic]
|Topic which sends to all destinations (rather like JMS Topics)

|http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/processor/loadbalancer/FailOverLoadBalancer.html[Failover]
|In case of failures the exchange will be tried on the next endpoint.

|Weighted Round-Robin |*Camel 2.5:* The weighted load balancing policy
allows you to specify a processing load distribution ratio for each
server with respect to the others. In addition to the weight, endpoint
selection is then further refined using *round-robin* distribution based
on weight.

|Weighted Random |*Camel 2.5:* The weighted load balancing policy allows
you to specify a processing load distribution ratio for each server with
respect to others.In addition to the weight, endpoint selection is then
further refined using *random* distribution based on weight.

|Custom |*Camel 2.8:* From Camel 2.8 onwards the preferred way of using
a custom link:load-balancer.html[Load Balancer] is to use this policy,
instead of using the @deprecated `ref` attribute.

|Circuit Breaker |*Camel 2.14:* Implements theÂ Circuit Breaker pattern
as described in "Release it!" book.
|=======================================================================

Load balancing HTTP endpoints

If you are proxying and load balancing HTTP, then see
link:how-to-use-camel-as-a-http-proxy-between-a-client-and-server.html[this
page] for more details.

[[LoadBalancer-RoundRobin]]
Round Robin
^^^^^^^^^^^

The round robin load balancer is not meant to work with failover, for
that you should use the dedicated *failover* load balancer. The round
robin load balancer will only change to next endpoint per message.

The round robin load balancer is stateful as it keeps state of which
endpoint to use next time.

*Using the link:fluent-builders.html[Fluent
Builders]*\{snippet:id=example|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/RoundRobinLoadBalanceTest.java}*Using
the Spring configuration*

xml<camelContext id="camel"
xmlns="http://camel.apache.org/schema/spring"> <route> <from
uri="direct:start"/> <loadBalance> <roundRobin/> <to uri="mock:x"/> <to
uri="mock:y"/> <to uri="mock:z"/> </loadBalance> </route>
</camelContext>

The above example loads balance requests from *direct:start* to one of
the available *mock endpoint* instances, in this case using a round
robin policy. +
For further examples of this pattern look at
http://svn.apache.org/viewvc/camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/RoundRobinLoadBalanceTest.java?view=markup[this
junit test case]

[[LoadBalancer-Failover]]
Failover
^^^^^^^^

The `failover` load balancer is capable of trying the next processor in
case an link:exchange.html[Exchange] failed with an `exception` during
processing. +
You can constrain the `failover` to activate only when one exception of
a list you specify occurs. If you do not specify a list any exception
will cause fail over to occur. This balancer uses the same strategy for
matching exceptions as the link:exception-clause.html[Exception Clause]
does for the *onException*.

Enable stream caching if using streams

If you use streaming then you should enable
link:stream-caching.html[Stream caching] when using the failover load
balancer. This is needed so the stream can be re-read after failing over
to the next processor.

Failover offers the following options:

[width="100%",cols="25%,25%,25%,25%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Type |Default |Description
|inheritErrorHandler |boolean |true |*Camel 2.3:* Whether or not the
link:error-handler.html[Error Handler] configured on the route should be
used. Disable this if you want failover to transfer immediately to the
next endpoint. On the other hand, if you have this option enabled, then
Camel will first let the link:error-handler.html[Error Handler] try to
process the message. The link:error-handler.html[Error Handler] may have
been configured to redeliver and use delays between attempts. If you
have enabled a number of redeliveries then Camel will try to redeliver
to the *same* endpoint, and only fail over to the next endpoint, when
the link:error-handler.html[Error Handler] is exhausted.

|maximumFailoverAttempts |int |-1 |*Camel 2.3:* A value to indicate
after X failover attempts we should exhaust (give up). Use -1 to
indicate never give up and continuously try to failover. Use 0 to never
failover. And use e.g. 3 to failover at most 3 times before giving up.
This option can be used whether or not roundRobin is enabled or not.

|roundRobin |boolean |false |*Camel 2.3:* Whether or not the `failover`
load balancer should operate in round robin mode or not. If not, then it
will *always* start from the first endpoint when a new message is to be
processed. In other words it restart from the top for every message. If
round robin is enabled, then it keeps state and will continue with the
next endpoint in a round robin fashion. When using round robin it will
not _stick_ to last known good endpoint, it will always pick the next
endpoint to use. You can also enable sticky mode together with round
robin, if so then it will pick the last known good endpoint to use when
starting the load balancing (instead of using the next when starting).

|sticky |boolean |false |*Camel 2.16:* Whether or not the failover load
balancer should operate in sticky mode or not. If not, then it will
always start from the first endpoint when a new message is to be
processed. In other words it restart from the top for every message. If
sticky is enabled, then it keeps state and will continue with the last
known good endpoint. You can also enable sticky mode together with round
robin, if so then it will pick the last known good endpoint to use when
starting the load balancing (instead of using the next when starting).
|=======================================================================

*Camel 2.2 or older behavior* +
The current implementation of failover load balancer uses simple logic
which *always* tries the first endpoint, and in case of an exception
being thrown it tries the next in the list, and so forth. It has no
state, and the next message will thus *always* start with the first
endpoint.

*Camel 2.3 onwards behavior* +
The `failover` load balancer now supports round robin mode, which allows
you to failover in a round robin fashion. See the `roundRobin` option.

Redelivery must be enabled

In Camel 2.2 or older the failover load balancer requires you have
enabled Camel link:error-handler.html[Error Handler] to use redelivery.
In Camel 2.3 onwards this is not required as such, as you can mix and
match. See the `inheritErrorHandler` option.

Here is a sample to failover only if a `IOException` related exception
was
thrown:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/FailOverNotCatchedExceptionTest.java}You
can specify multiple exceptions to failover as the option is varargs,
for instance:

java// enable redelivery so failover can react
errorHandler(defaultErrorHandler().maximumRedeliveries(5));
from("direct:foo"). loadBalance().failover(IOException.class,
MyOtherException.class) .to("direct:a", "direct:b");

[[LoadBalancer-UsingfailoverinSpringDSL]]
Using failover in Spring DSL
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Failover can also be used from Spring DSL and you configure it as:

xml <route errorHandlerRef="myErrorHandler"> <from uri="direct:foo"/>
<loadBalance> <failover> <exception>java.io.IOException</exception>
<exception>com.mycompany.MyOtherException</exception> </failover> <to
uri="direct:a"/> <to uri="direct:b"/> </loadBalance> </route>

[[LoadBalancer-Usingfailoverinroundrobinmode]]
Using failover in round robin mode
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

An example using Java
DSL:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/FailoverRoundRobinTest.java}And
the same example using Spring
XML:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-spring/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/spring/processor/FailoverRoundRobinTest.xml}

Disabled inheritErrorHandler

You can configure `inheritErrorHandler=false` if you want to failover to
the next endpoint as fast as possible. By disabling the
link:error-handler.html[Error Handler] you ensure it does not
_intervene_ which allows the `failover` load balancer to handle failover
asap. By also enabling `roundRobin` mode, then it will keep retrying
until it success. You can then configure the `maximumFailoverAttempts`
option to a high value to let it eventually exhaust (give up) and fail.

[[LoadBalancer-WeightedRound-RobinandRandomLoadBalancing]]
Weighted Round-Robin and Random Load Balancing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.5*

In many enterprise environments where server nodes of unequal processing
power & performance characteristics are utilized to host services and
processing endpoints, it is frequently necessary to distribute
processing load based on their individual server capabilities so that
some endpoints are not unfairly burdened with requests. Obviously simple
round-robin or random load balancing do not alleviate problems of this
nature. A Weighted Round-Robin and/or Weighted Random load balancer can
be used to address this problem.

The weighted load balancing policy allows you to specify a processing
load distribution ratio for each server with respect to others. You can
specify this as a positive processing weight for each server. A larger
number indicates that the server can handle a larger load. The weight is
utilized to determine the payload distribution ratio to different
processing endpoints with respect to others.

Disabled inheritErrorHandler

As of Camel 2.6, the Weighted Load balancer usage has been further
simplified, there is no need to send in distributionRatio as a
List<Integer>. It can be simply sent as a delimited String of integer
weights separated by a delimiter of choice.

The parameters that can be used are

*In Camel 2.5*

[width="100%",cols="25%,25%,25%,25%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Type |Default |Description
|roundRobin |boolean |false |The default value for round-robin is false.
In the absence of this setting or parameter the load balancing algorithm
used is random.

|distributionRatio |List<Integer> |none |The distributionRatio is a list
consisting on integer weights passed in as a parameter. The
distributionRatio must match the number of endpoints and/or processors
specified in the load balancer list. In Camel 2.5 if endpoints do not
match ratios, then a best effort distribution is attempted.
|=======================================================================

*Available In Camel 2.6*

[width="100%",cols="25%,25%,25%,25%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Type |Default |Description
|roundRobin |boolean |false |The default value for round-robin is false.
In the absence of this setting or parameter the load balancing algorithm
used is random.

|distributionRatio |String |none |The distributionRatio is a delimited
String consisting on integer weights separated by delimiters for example
"2,3,5". The distributionRatio must match the number of endpoints and/or
processors specified in the load balancer list.

|distributionRatioDelimiter |String |, |The distributionRatioDelimiter
is the delimiter used to specify the distributionRatio. If this
attribute is not specified a default delimiter "," is expected as the
delimiter used for specifying the distributionRatio.
|=======================================================================

[[LoadBalancer-UsingWeightedround-robin&randomloadbalancing]]
Using Weighted round-robin & random load balancing
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*In Camel 2.5*

An example using Java DSL:

javaArrayList<integer> distributionRatio = new ArrayList<integer>();
distributionRatio.add(4); distributionRatio.add(2);
distributionRatio.add(1); // round-robin from("direct:start")
.loadBalance().weighted(true, distributionRatio) .to("mock:x", "mock:y",
"mock:z"); //random from("direct:start") .loadBalance().weighted(false,
distributionRatio) .to("mock:x", "mock:y", "mock:z");

And the same example using Spring XML:

xml <route> <from uri="direct:start"/> <loadBalance> <weighted
roundRobin="false" distributionRatio="4 2 1"/> <to uri="mock:x"/> <to
uri="mock:y"/> <to uri="mock:z"/> </loadBalance> </route>

*Available In Camel 2.6*

An example using Java DSL:

java// round-robin from("direct:start") .loadBalance().weighted(true,
"4:2:1" distributionRatioDelimiter=":") .to("mock:x", "mock:y",
"mock:z"); //random from("direct:start") .loadBalance().weighted(false,
"4,2,1") .to("mock:x", "mock:y", "mock:z");

And the same example using Spring XML:

xml <route> <from uri="direct:start"/> <loadBalance> <weighted
roundRobin="false" distributionRatio="4-2-1"
distributionRatioDelimiter="-" /> <to uri="mock:x"/> <to uri="mock:y"/>
<to uri="mock:z"/> </loadBalance> </route>

[[LoadBalancer-CustomLoadBalancer]]
Custom Load Balancer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can use a custom load balancer (eg your own implementation) also.

An example using Java
DSL:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/CustomLoadBalanceTest.java}And
the same example using XML
DSL:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-spring/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/spring/processor/SpringCustomRefLoadBalanceTest.xml}Notice
in the XML DSL above we use <custom> which is only available in *Camel
2.8* onwards. In older releases you would have to do as follows instead:

xml <loadBalance ref="myBalancer"> <!-- these are the endpoints to
balancer --> <to uri="mock:x"/> <to uri="mock:y"/> <to uri="mock:z"/>
</loadBalance>

To implement a custom load balancer you can extend some support classes
such as `LoadBalancerSupport` and `SimpleLoadBalancerSupport`. The
former supports the asynchronous routing engine, and the latter does
not. Here is an example:\{snippet:id=e2|title=Custom load balancer
implementation|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/CustomLoadBalanceTest.java}

[[LoadBalancer-CircuitBreaker]]
Circuit Breaker
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Circuit Breaker load balancer is a stateful pattern that monitors
all calls for certain exceptions. Initially the Circuit Breaker is in
closed state and passes all messages. If there are failures and the
threshold is reached, it moves to open state and rejects all calls until
halfOpenAfter timeout is reached. After this timeout is reached, if
there is a new call, it will pass and if the result is success the
Circuit Breaker will move to closed state, or to open state if there was
an error.

When the circuit breaker is closed, it will throw a
`java.util.concurrent.RejectedExecutionException`. This can then be
caught to provide an alternate path for processing exchanges.

An example using Java DSL:

javafrom("direct:start") .onException(RejectedExecutionException.class)
.handled(true) .to("mock:serviceUnavailable") .end() Â .loadBalance()
.circuitBreaker(2, 1000L, MyCustomException.class) .to("mock:service")
.end();

And the same example using Spring XML:

xml<camelContext id="camel"
xmlns="http://camel.apache.org/schema/spring"> <route> <from
uri="direct:start"/> <onException>
<exception>java.util.concurrent.RejectedExecutionException</exception>
<handled><constant>true</constant></handled> <to
uri="mock:serviceUnavailable"/> </onException> Â <loadBalance>
<circuitBreaker threshold="2" halfOpenAfter="1000">
<exception>MyCustomException</exception> </circuitBreaker> <to
uri="mock:service"/> </loadBalance> </route> </camelContext>

link:using-this-pattern.html[Using This Pattern]
