[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[Loop-Loop]]
Loop
~~~~

The Loop allows for processing a message a number of times, possibly in
a different way for each iteration. Useful mostly during testing.

Default mode

Notice by default the loop uses the same exchange throughout the
looping. So the result from the previous iteration will be used for the
next (eg link:pipes-and-filters.html[Pipes and Filters]). From *Camel
2.8* onwards you can enable copy mode instead. See the options table for
more details.

[[Loop-Options]]
Options
^^^^^^^

confluenceTableSmall 

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Name |Default Value |Description
|`copy` |`false` |*Camel 2.8:* Whether or not copy mode is used. If
`false` then the same Exchange will be used for each iteration. So the
result from the previous iteration will be _visible_ for the next
iteration. Instead you can enable copy mode, and then each iteration
_restarts_ with a fresh copy of the input link:exchange.html[Exchange].

|doWhile |  |*Camel 2.17:* Enables the while loop that loops until the
predicate evaluates to false or null.
|=======================================================================

[[Loop-Exchangeproperties]]
Exchange properties
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For each iteration two properties are set on the `Exchange`. Processors
can rely on these properties to process the link:message.html[Message]
in different ways.

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Property |Description
|`CamelLoopSize` |Total number of loops. This is not available if
running the loop in while loop mode.

|`CamelLoopIndex` |Index of the current iteration (0 based)
|=======================================================================

[[Loop-Examples]]
Examples
++++++++

The following example shows how to take a request from the *direct:x*
endpoint, then send the message repetitively to *mock:result*. The
number of times the message is sent is either passed as an argument to
`loop()`, or determined at runtime by evaluating an expression. The
expression *must* evaluate to an `int`, otherwise a
`RuntimeCamelException` is thrown.

*Using the link:fluent-builders.html[Fluent Builders]*

Pass loop count as an
argument\{snippet:id=ex1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/LoopTest.java}Use
expression to determine loop
count\{snippet:id=ex2|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/LoopTest.java}Use
expression to determine loop
count\{snippet:id=ex3|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/LoopTest.java}*Using
the link:spring-xml-extensions.html[Spring XML Extensions]*

Pass loop count as an
argument\{snippet:id=ex1|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-spring/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/spring/processor/loop.xml}Use
expression to determine loop
count\{snippet:id=ex2|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-spring/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/spring/processor/loop.xml}For
further examples of this pattern in use you could look at one of the
http://svn.apache.org/viewvc/camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/LoopTest.java?view=markup[junit
test case]

[[Loop-Usingcopymode]]
Using copy mode
+++++++++++++++

*Available as of Camel 2.8*

Now suppose we send a message to "direct:start" endpoint containing the
letter A. +
The output of processing this route will be that, each "mock:loop"
endpoint will receive "AB" as
message.\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/LoopCopyTest.java}However
if we do *not* enable copy mode then "mock:loop" will receive "AB",
"ABB", "ABBB", etc.
messages.\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/LoopNoCopyTest.java}The
equivalent example in XML DSL in copy mode is as
follows:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-spring/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/spring/processor/SpringLoopCopyTest.xml}

[[Loop-Usingwhilemode]]
Using while mode
++++++++++++++++

*Available as of Camel 2.17*

The loop can act like a while loop that loops until the expression
evaluates to false or null.

For example the route below loops while the length of the message body
is 5 or less characters. Notice that the DSL uses *loopDoWhile*.

from("direct:start") .loopDoWhile(simple("$\{body.length} <= 5"))
.to("mock:loop") .transform(body().append("A")) .end()
.to("mock:result");

And the same example in XML:

xml <route> <from uri="direct:start"/> <loop doWhile="true">
<simple>$\{body.length} &lt;= 5</simple> <to uri="mock:loop"/>
<transform> <simple>A$\{body}</simple> </transform> </loop> <to
uri="mock:result"/> </route>

Notice in XML that the while loop is turned on using the *doWhile*
attribute.

 

link:using-this-pattern.html[Using This Pattern]
