[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[Mail-MailComponent]]
Mail Component
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The mail component provides access to Email via Spring's Mail support
and the underlying JavaMail system.

Maven users will need to add the following dependency to their `pom.xml`
for this component:

xml<dependency> <groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId>
<artifactId>camel-mail</artifactId> <version>x.x.x</version> <!-- use
the same version as your Camel core version --> </dependency> Geronimo
mail .jar

We have discovered that the geronimo mail `.jar` (v1.6) has a bug when
polling mails with attachments. It cannot correctly identify the
`Content-Type`. So, if you attach a `.jpeg` file to a mail and you poll
it, the `Content-Type` is resolved as `text/plain` and not as
`image/jpeg`. For that reason, we have added an
`org.apache.camel.component.ContentTypeResolver` SPI interface which
enables you to provide your own implementation and fix this bug by
returning the correct Mime type based on the file name. So if the file
name ends with `jpeg/jpg`, you can return `image/jpeg`.

You can set your custom resolver on the `MailComponent` instance or on
the `MailEndpoint` instance.

POP3 or IMAP

POP3 has some limitations and end users are encouraged to use IMAP if
possible.

Using mock-mail for testing

You can use a mock framework for unit testing, which allows you to test
without the need for a real mail server. However you should remember to
not include the mock-mail when you go into production or other
environments where you need to send mails to a real mail server. Just
the presence of the mock-javamail.jar on the classpath means that it
will kick in and avoid sending the mails.

[[Mail-URIformat]]
URI format
^^^^^^^^^^

Mail endpoints can have one of the following URI formats (for the
protocols, SMTP, POP3, or IMAP, respectively):

smtp://[username@]host[:port][?options]
pop3://[username@]host[:port][?options]
imap://[username@]host[:port][?options]

The mail component also supports secure variants of these protocols
(layered over SSL). You can enable the secure protocols by adding `s` to
the scheme:

smtps://[username@]host[:port][?options]
pop3s://[username@]host[:port][?options]
imaps://[username@]host[:port][?options]

You can append query options to the URI in the following format,
`?option=value&option=value&...`

[[Mail-Sampleendpoints]]
Sample endpoints
++++++++++++++++

Typically, you specify a URI with login credentials as follows (taking
SMTP as an example):

smtp://[username@]host[:port][?password=somepwd]

Alternatively, it is possible to specify both the user name and the
password as query options:

smtp://host[:port]?password=somepwd&username=someuser

For example:

smtp://mycompany.mailserver:30?password=tiger&username=scott

[[Mail-DefaultPortsDefaultports]]
DefaultPortsDefault ports
+++++++++++++++++++++++++

Default port numbers are supported. If the port number is omitted, Camel
determines the port number to use based on the protocol.

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|=============================
|Protocol |Default Port Number
|`SMTP` |`25`
|`SMTPS` |`465`
|`POP3` |`110`
|`POP3S` |`995`
|`IMAP` |`143`
|`IMAPS` |`993`
|=============================

[[Mail-Options]]
Options
^^^^^^^

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Property |Default |Description
|`host` |  |The host name or IP address to connect to.

|`port` |See link:mail.html[#DefaultPorts] |The TCP port number to
connect on.

|`username` |  |The user name on the email server.

|`password` |`null` |The password on the email server.

|`ignoreUriScheme` |`false` |If `false`, Camel uses the scheme to
determine the transport protocol (POP, IMAP, SMTP etc.)

|`contentType` |`text/plain` |The mail message content type. Use
`text/html` for HTML mails.

|`folderName` |`INBOX` |The folder to poll.

|`destination` |`username@host` |*@deprecated* Use the `to` option
instead. The `TO` recipients (receivers of the email).

|`to` |`username@host` |The TO recipients (the receivers of the mail).
Separate multiple email addresses with a comma. Email addresses
containing special characters such as "&" will need to be handled
differently - see
link:how-do-i-configure-password-options-on-camel-endpoints-without-the-value-being-encoded.html[How
do I configure password options on Camel endpoints without the value
being encoded].

|`replyTo` |`alias@host` |As of *Camel 2.8.4, 2.9.1+*, the Reply-To
recipients (the receivers of the response mail). Separate multiple email
addresses with a comma.

|`cc` |`null` |The CC recipients (the receivers of the mail). Separate
multiple email addresses with a comma.

|`bcc` |`null` |The BCC recipients (the receivers of the mail). Separate
multiple email addresses with a comma.

|`from` |`camel@localhost` |The FROM email address.

|`subject` |  |As of *Camel 2.3*, the Subject of the message being sent.
Note: Setting the subject in the header takes precedence over this
option.

|`peek` |`true` |*Camel 2.11.3/2.12.2:* Consumer only. Will mark the
`javax.mail.Message` as peeked before processing the mail message. This
applies to `IMAPMessage` messages types only. By using peek the mail
will not be eager marked as `SEEN` on the mail server, which allows us
to rollback the mail message if there is an error processing in Camel.

|`delete` |`false` |Deletes the messages after they have been processed.
This is done by setting the `DELETED` flag on the mail message. If
`false`, the `SEEN` flag is set instead. As of *Camel 2.10* you can
override this configuration option by setting a header with the key
`delete` to determine if the mail should be deleted or not.

|`unseen` |`true` |It is possible to configure a consumer endpoint so
that it processes only unseen messages (that is, new messages) or all
messages. Note that Camel always skips deleted messages. The default
option of `true` will filter to only unseen messages. POP3 does not
support the `SEEN` flag, so this option is not supported in POP3; use
IMAP instead. *Important:* This option is *not* in use if you also use
`searchTerm` options. Instead if you want to disable unseen when using
`searchTerm`'s then add `searchTerm.unseen=false` as a term.

|`copyTo` |`null` |*Camel 2.10:* Consumer only. After processing a mail
message, it can be copied to a mail folder with the given name. You can
override this configuration value, with a header with the key `copyTo`,
allowing you to copy messages to folder names configured at runtime.

|`fetchSize` |`-1` |Sets the maximum number of messages to consume
during a poll. This can be used to avoid overloading a mail server, if a
mailbox folder contains a lot of messages. Default value of `-1` means
no fetch size and all messages will be consumed. Setting the value to 0
is a special corner case, where Camel will not consume any messages at
all.

|`alternativeBodyHeader` |`CamelMailAlternativeBody` |Specifies the key
to an IN message header that contains an alternative email body. For
example, if you send emails in `text/html` format and want to provide an
alternative mail body for non-HTML email clients, set the alternative
mail body with this key as a header.

|`debugMode` |`false` |Enable debug mode on the underlying mail
framework. The SUN Mail framework logs the debug messages to
`System.out` by default.

|`connectionTimeout` |`30000` |The connection timeout in milliseconds.
Default is 30 seconds.

|`consumer.initialDelay` |`1000` |Milliseconds before the polling
starts.

|`consumer.delay` |`60000` |Camel will poll the mailbox only once a
minute by default to avoid overloading the mail server.

|`consumer.useFixedDelay` |`false` |Set to `true` to use a fixed delay
between polls, otherwise fixed rate is used. See
http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/api/java/util/concurrent/ScheduledExecutorService.html[ScheduledExecutorService]
in JDK for details.

|`disconnect` |`false` |*Camel 2.8.3/2.9:* Whether the consumer should
disconnect after polling. If enabled this forces Camel to connect on
each poll.

|`closeFolder` |`true` |*Camel 2.10.4:* Whether the consumer should
close the folder after polling. Setting this option to `false` and
having `disconnect=false` as well, then the consumer keep the folder
open between polls.

|`mail.XXX` |`null` |Set any
http://java.sun.com/products/javamail/javadocs/index.html[additional
java mail properties]. For instance if you want to set a special
property when using POP3 you can now provide the option directly in the
URI such as: `mail.pop3.forgettopheaders=true`. You can set multiple
such options, for example:
`mail.pop3.forgettopheaders=true&mail.mime.encodefilename=true`.

|`mapMailMessage` |`true` |*Camel 2.8:* Specifies whether Camel should
map the received mail message to Camel body/headers. If set to true, the
body of the mail message is mapped to the body of the Camel IN message
and the mail headers are mapped to IN headers. If this option is set to
false then the IN message contains a raw `javax.mail.Message`. You can
retrieve this raw message by calling
`exchange.getIn().getBody(javax.mail.Message.class)`.

|`maxMessagesPerPoll` |`0` |Specifies the maximum number of messages to
gather per poll. By default, no maximum is set. Can be used to set a
limit of e.g. 1000 to avoid downloading thousands of files when the
server starts up. Set a value of 0 or negative to disable this option.

|`javaMailSender` |`null` |Specifies a pluggable
org.apache.camel.component.mail.JavaMailSender instance in order to use
a custom email implementation.

|`ignoreUnsupportedCharset` |`false` |Option to let Camel ignore
unsupported charset in the local JVM when sending mails. If the charset
is unsupported then `charset=XXX` (where `XXX` represents the
unsupported charset) is removed from the `content-type` and it relies on
the platform default instead.

|`sslContextParameters` |`null` |*Camel 2.10:* Reference to a
`org.apache.camel.util.jsse.SSLContextParameters` in the
http://camel.apache.org/registry.html[Registry].  This reference
overrides any configured SSLContextParameters at the component level. 
See
http://camel.apache.org/http4.html#HTTP4-UsingtheJSSEConfigurationUtility[Using
the JSSE Configuration Utility].

|`searchTerm` |`null` |*Camel 2.11:* Refers to a
`javax.mail.search.SearchTerm` which allows to filter mails based on
search criteria such as subject, body, from, sent after a certain date
etc. See further below for examples.

|`searchTerm.xxx` |`null` |*Camel 2.11:* To configure search terms
directly from the endpoint uri, which supports a limited number of terms
defined by the `org.apache.camel.component.mail.SimpleSearchTerm` class.
See further below for examples.

|`sortTerm` |`null` a|
*Camel 2.15:* To configure the sortTerms that IMAP supports to sort the
searched mails***.*** You may need to define an array of

`com.sun.mail.imap.sortTerm` in the registry first and #name to
reference it in this URI option.

*Camel 2.16:* You can also specify a comma separated list of sort terms
on the URI that Camel will convert internally. For example, to sort
descending by date you would use `sortTerm=reverse,date`. You can use
any of the sort terms defined in
https://javamail.java.net/nonav/docs/api/com/sun/mail/imap/SortTerm.html[com.sun.mail.imap.SortTerm].

|`postProcessAction` |`null` |*Camel 2.15:* Refers to
a`org.apache.camel.component.mail.``MailBoxPostProcessAction` for doing
post processing tasks on the mailbox once the normal processing ended.

|`skipFailedMessage` |`false` |*Camel 2.15.1:* If the mail consumer
cannot retrieve a given mail message, then this option allows to skip
the message and move on to retrieve the next mail message. The default
behavior would be the consumer throws an exception and no mails from the
batch would be able to be routed by Camel.

|`handleFailedMessage` |`false` |*Camel 2.15.1:* If the mail consumer
cannot retrieve a given mail message, then this option allows to handle
the caused exception by the consumer's error handler. By enable the
bridge error handler on the consumer, then the Camel routing error
handler can handle the exception instead. The default behavior would be
the consumer throws an exception and no mails from the batch would be
able to be routed by Camel.

a|
....
dummyTrustManager
....

 |`false` |**Camel 2.17:**To use a dummy security setting for trusting
all certificates. Should only be used for development mode, and not
production.

|`idempotentRepository` |`null` |*Camel 2.17:* A pluggable repository
org.apache.camel.spi.IdempotentRepository which allows to cluster
consuming from the same mailbox, and let the repository coordinate
whether a mail message is valid for the consumer to process.

|`idempotentRepositoryRemoveOnCommit` |`true` |*Camel 2.17:* When using
idempotent repository, then when the mail message has been successfully
processed and is committed, should the message id be removed from the
idempotent repository (default) or be kept in the repository. By default
its assumed the message id is unique and has no value to be kept in the
repository, because the mail message will be marked as seen/moved or
deleted to prevent it from being consumed again. And therefore having
the message id stored in the idempotent repository has little value.
However this option allows to store the message id, for whatever reason
you may have.

|`mailUidGenerator` |  |*Camel 2.17:* A pluggable MailUidGenerator that
allows to use custom logic to generate UUID of the mail message.
|=======================================================================

[[Mail-SSLsupport]]
SSL support
^^^^^^^^^^^

The underlying mail framework is responsible for providing SSL support.
 You may either configure SSL/TLS support by completely specifying the
necessary Java Mail API configuration options, or you may provide a
configured SSLContextParameters through the component or endpoint
configuration.

[[Mail-UsingtheJSSEConfigurationUtility]]
Using the JSSE Configuration Utility
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

As of *Camel 2.10*, the mail component supports SSL/TLS configuration
through the link:camel-configuration-utilities.html[Camel JSSE
Configuration Utility].  This utility greatly decreases the amount of
component specific code you need to write and is configurable at the
endpoint and component levels.  The following examples demonstrate how
to use the utility with the mail component.

[[Mail-Programmaticconfigurationoftheendpoint]]
Programmatic configuration of the endpoint

KeyStoreParameters ksp = new KeyStoreParameters();
ksp.setResource("/users/home/server/truststore.jks");
ksp.setPassword("keystorePassword"); TrustManagersParameters tmp = new
TrustManagersParameters(); tmp.setKeyStore(ksp); SSLContextParameters
scp = new SSLContextParameters(); scp.setTrustManagers(tmp); Registry
registry = ... registry.bind("sslContextParameters", scp); ... from(...)
&nbsp; &nbsp;
.to("smtps://smtp.google.com?username=user@gmail.com&password=password&sslContextParameters=#sslContextParameters");

[[Mail-SpringDSLbasedconfigurationofendpoint]]
Spring DSL based configuration of endpoint

xml... <camel:sslContextParameters id="sslContextParameters">
<camel:trustManagers> <camel:keyStore
resource="/users/home/server/truststore.jks"
password="keystorePassword"/> </camel:trustManagers>
</camel:sslContextParameters>... ... <to
uri="smtps://smtp.google.com?username=user@gmail.com&password=password&sslContextParameters=#sslContextParameters"/>...

[[Mail-ConfiguringJavaMailDirectly]]
Configuring JavaMail Directly
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Camel uses SUN JavaMail, which only trusts certificates issued by well
known Certificate Authorities (the default JVM trust configuration). If
you issue your own certificates, you have to import the CA certificates
into the JVM's Java trust/key store files, override the default JVM
trust/key store files (see `SSLNOTES.txt` in JavaMail for details).

[[Mail-MailMessageContent]]
Mail Message Content
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Camel uses the message exchange's IN body as the
http://java.sun.com/javaee/5/docs/api/javax/mail/internet/MimeMessage.html[MimeMessage]
text content. The body is converted to `String.class`.

Camel copies all of the exchange's IN headers to the
http://java.sun.com/javaee/5/docs/api/javax/mail/internet/MimeMessage.html[MimeMessage]
headers. You may wish to
read link:how-to-avoid-sending-some-or-all-message-headers.html[How to
avoid sending some or all message headers] to prevent inadvertent data
"leaks" from your application.

The subject of the
http://java.sun.com/javaee/5/docs/api/javax/mail/internet/MimeMessage.html[MimeMessage]
can be configured using a header property on the IN message. The code
below demonstrates
this:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-mail/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/mail/MailSubjectTest.java}The
same applies for other MimeMessage headers such as recipients, so you
can use a header property as
`To`:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-mail/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/mail/MailUsingHeadersTest.java}*Since
Camel 2.11* When using the MailProducer the send the mail to server, you
should be able to get the message id of the
http://java.sun.com/javaee/5/docs/api/javax/mail/internet/MimeMessage.html[MimeMessage]
with the key `CamelMailMessageId` from the Camel message header.

[[Mail-Headerstakeprecedenceoverpre-configuredrecipients]]
Headers take precedence over pre-configured recipients
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The recipients specified in the message headers always take precedence
over recipients pre-configured in the endpoint URI. The idea is that if
you provide any recipients in the message headers, that is what you get.
The recipients pre-configured in the endpoint URI are treated as a
fallback.

In the sample code below, the email message is sent to
`davsclaus@apache.org`, because it takes precedence over the
pre-configured recipient, `info@mycompany.com`. Any `cc` and `bcc`
settings in the endpoint URI are also ignored and those recipients will
not receive any mail. The choice between headers and pre-configured
settings is all or nothing: the mail component _either_ takes the
recipients exclusively from the headers or exclusively from the
pre-configured settings. It is not possible to mix and match headers and
pre-configured settings.

java Map<String, Object> headers = new HashMap<String, Object>();
headers.put("to", "davsclaus@apache.org");
template.sendBodyAndHeaders("smtp://admin@localhost?to=info@mycompany.com",
"Hello World", headers);

[[Mail-Multiplerecipientsforeasierconfiguration]]
Multiple recipients for easier configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

It is possible to set multiple recipients using a comma-separated or a
semicolon-separated list. This applies both to header settings and to
settings in an endpoint URI. For example:

java Map<String, Object> headers = new HashMap<String, Object>();
headers.put("to", "davsclaus@apache.org ; jstrachan@apache.org ;
ningjiang@apache.org");

The preceding example uses a semicolon, `;`, as the separator character.

[[Mail-Settingsendernameandemail]]
Setting sender name and email
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can specify recipients in the format, `name <email>`, to include
both the name and the email address of the recipient.

For example, you define the following headers on the a
link:message.html[Message]:

Map headers = new HashMap(); map.put("To", "Claus Ibsen
<davsclaus@apache.org>"); map.put("From", "James Strachan
<jstrachan@apache.org>"); map.put("Subject", "Camel is cool");

[[Mail-JavaMailAPI(exSUNJavaMail)]]
JavaMail API (ex SUN JavaMail)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

https://java.net/projects/javamail/pages/Home[JavaMail API] is used
under the hood for consuming and producing mails. +
We encourage end-users to consult these references when using either
POP3 or IMAP protocol. Note particularly that POP3 has a much more
limited set of features than IMAP.

* https://javamail.java.net/nonav/docs/api/com/sun/mail/pop3/package-summary.html[JavaMail
POP3 API]
* https://javamail.java.net/nonav/docs/api/com/sun/mail/imap/package-summary.html[JavaMail
IMAP API]
* And generally about the
https://javamail.java.net/nonav/docs/api/javax/mail/Flags.html[MAIL
Flags]

[[Mail-Samples]]
Samples
^^^^^^^

We start with a simple route that sends the messages received from a JMS
queue as emails. The email account is the `admin` account on
`mymailserver.com`.

from("jms://queue:subscription").to("smtp://admin@mymailserver.com?password=secret");

In the next sample, we poll a mailbox for new emails once every minute.
Notice that we use the special `consumer` option for setting the poll
interval, `consumer.delay`, as 60000 milliseconds = 60 seconds.

from("imap://admin@mymailserver.com
password=secret&unseen=true&consumer.delay=60000") .to("seda://mails");

In this sample we want to send a mail to multiple
recipients:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-mail/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/mail/MailRecipientsTest.java}

[[Mail-Sendingmailwithattachmentsample]]
Sending mail with attachment sample
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Attachments are not support by all Camel components

The _Attachments API_ is based on the Java Activation Framework and is
generally only used by the Mail API. Since many of the other Camel
components do not support attachments, the attachments could potentially
be lost as they propagate along the route. The rule of thumb, therefore,
is to add attachments just before sending a message to the mail
endpoint.

The mail component supports attachments. In the sample below, we send a
mail message containing a plain text message with a logo file
attachment.\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-mail/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/mail/MailAttachmentTest.java}

[[Mail-SSLsample]]
SSL sample
^^^^^^^^^^

In this sample, we want to poll our Google mail inbox for mails. To
download mail onto a local mail client, Google mail requires you to
enable and configure SSL. This is done by logging into your Google mail
account and changing your settings to allow IMAP access. Google have
extensive documentation on how to do this.

from("imaps://imap.gmail.com?username=YOUR_USERNAME@gmail.com&password=YOUR_PASSWORD"
+ "&delete=false&unseen=true&consumer.delay=60000").to("log:newmail");

The preceding route polls the Google mail inbox for new mails once every
minute and logs the received messages to the `newmail` logger
category. +
Running the sample with `DEBUG` logging enabled, we can monitor the
progress in the logs:

2008-05-08 06:32:09,640 DEBUG MailConsumer - Connecting to MailStore
imaps//imap.gmail.com:993 (SSL enabled), folder=INBOX 2008-05-08
06:32:11,203 DEBUG MailConsumer - Polling mailfolder:
imaps//imap.gmail.com:993 (SSL enabled), folder=INBOX 2008-05-08
06:32:11,640 DEBUG MailConsumer - Fetching 1 messages. Total 1 messages.
2008-05-08 06:32:12,171 DEBUG MailConsumer - Processing message:
messageNumber=[332], from=[James Bond <007@mi5.co.uk>],
to=YOUR_USERNAME@gmail.com], subject=[... 2008-05-08 06:32:12,187 INFO
newmail - Exchange[MailMessage: messageNumber=[332], from=[James Bond
<007@mi5.co.uk>], to=YOUR_USERNAME@gmail.com], subject=[...

[[Mail-Consumingmailswithattachmentsample]]
Consuming mails with attachment sample
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In this sample we poll a mailbox and store all attachments from the
mails as files. First, we define a route to poll the mailbox. As this
sample is based on google mail, it uses the same route as shown in the
SSL sample:

from("imaps://imap.gmail.com?username=YOUR_USERNAME@gmail.com&password=YOUR_PASSWORD"
+ "&delete=false&unseen=true&consumer.delay=60000").process(new
MyMailProcessor());

Instead of logging the mail we use a processor where we can process the
mail from java code:

public void process(Exchange exchange) throws Exception \{ // the API is
a bit clunky so we need to loop Map<String, DataHandler> attachments =
exchange.getIn().getAttachments(); if (attachments.size() > 0) \{ for
(String name : attachments.keySet()) \{ DataHandler dh =
attachments.get(name); // get the file name String filename =
dh.getName(); // get the content and convert it to byte[] byte[] data =
exchange.getContext().getTypeConverter() .convertTo(byte[].class,
dh.getInputStream()); // write the data to a file FileOutputStream out =
new FileOutputStream(filename); out.write(data); out.flush();
out.close(); } } }

As you can see the API to handle attachments is a bit clunky but it's
there so you can get the `javax.activation.DataHandler` so you can
handle the attachments using standard API.

[[Mail-Howtosplitamailmessagewithattachments]]
How to split a mail message with attachments
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In this example we consume mail messages which may have a number of
attachments. What we want to do is to use the
link:splitter.html[Splitter] EIP per individual attachment, to process
the attachments separately. For example if the mail message has 5
attachments, we want the link:splitter.html[Splitter] to process five
messages, each having a single attachment. To do this we need to provide
a custom link:expression.html[Expression] to the
link:splitter.html[Splitter] where we provide a List<Message> that
contains the five messages with the single attachment.

The code is provided out of the box in Camel 2.10 onwards in the
`camel-mail` component. The code is in the class:
`org.apache.camel.component.mail.SplitAttachmentsExpression`, which you
can find the source code
https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/camel/trunk/components/camel-mail/src/main/java/org/apache/camel/component/mail/SplitAttachmentsExpression.java[here]

In the Camel route you then need to use this
link:expression.html[Expression] in the route as shown
below:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-mail/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/mail/MailSplitAttachmentsTest.java}If
you use XML DSL then you need to declare a method call expression in the
link:splitter.html[Splitter] as shown below

xml<split> <method
beanType="org.apache.camel.component.mail.SplitAttachmentsExpression"/>
<to uri="mock:split"/> </split>

 

From Camel 2.16 onwards you can also split the attachments as byte[] to
be stored as the message body. This is done by creating the expression
with boolean true

SplitAttachmentsExpression split = SplitAttachmentsExpression(true);

And then use the expression with the splitter eip.

[[Mail-UsingcustomSearchTerm]]
Using custom SearchTerm
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.11*

You can configure a `searchTerm` on the `MailEndpoint` which allows you
to filter out unwanted mails.

For example to filter mails to contain Camel in either Subject or Text
you can do as follows:

xml<route> <from
uri="imaps://mymailseerver?username=foo&password=secret&searchTerm.subjectOrBody=Camel"/>
<to uri="bean:myBean"/> </route>

Notice we use the `"searchTerm.subjectOrBody"` as parameter key to
indicate that we want to search on mail subject or body, to contain the
word "Camel". +
The class `org.apache.camel.component.mail.SimpleSearchTerm` has a
number of options you can configure:

Or to get the new unseen emails going 24 hours back in time you can do.
Notice the "now-24h" syntax. See the table below for more details.

xml<route> <from
uri="imaps://mymailseerver?username=foo&password=secret&searchTerm.fromSentDate=now-24h"/>
<to uri="bean:myBean"/> </route>

You can have multiple searchTerm in the endpoint uri configuration. They
would then be combined together using AND operator, eg so both
conditions must match. For example to get the last unseen emails going
back 24 hours which has Camel in the mail subject you can do:

xml<route> <from
uri="imaps://mymailseerver?username=foo&password=secret&searchTerm.subject=Camel&searchTerm.fromSentDate=now-24h"/>
<to uri="bean:myBean"/> </route> confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Default |Description
|unseen |`true` |Whether to limit by unseen mails only.

|subjectOrBody |`null` |To limit by subject or body to contain the word.

|subject |`null` |The subject must contain the word.

|body |`null` |The body must contain the word.

|from |`null` |The mail must be from a given email pattern.

|to |`null` |The mail must be to a given email pattern.

|fromSentDate |`null` |The mail must be sent after or equals (GE) a
given date. The date pattern is `yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:SS`, eg use
`"2012-01-01 00:00:00"` to be from the year 2012 onwards. You can use
`"now"` for current timestamp. The "now" syntax supports an optional
offset, that can be specified as either + or - with a numeric value. For
example for last 24 hours, you can use `"now - 24h"` or without spaces
`"now-24h"`. Notice that Camel supports shorthands for hours, minutes,
and seconds.

|toSentDate |`null` |The mail must be sent before or equals (BE) a given
date. The date pattern is `yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:SS`, eg use
`"2012-01-01 00:00:00"` to be before the year 2012. You can use `"now"`
for current timestamp. The "now" syntax supports an optional offset,
that can be specified as either + or - with a numeric value. For example
for last 24 hours, you can use `"now - 24h"` or without spaces
`"now-24h"`. Notice that Camel supports shorthands for hours, minutes,
and seconds.
|=======================================================================

The `SimpleSearchTerm` is designed to be easily configurable from a
POJO, so you can also configure it using a <bean> style in XML

<bean id="mySearchTerm"
class="org.apache.camel.component.mail.SimpleSearchTerm"> <property
name="subject" value="Order"/> <property name="to"
value="acme-order@acme.com"/> <property name="fromSentDate"
value="now"/> </bean>

You can then refer to this bean, using #beanId in your Camel route as
shown:

xml<route> <from
uri="imaps://mymailseerver?username=foo&password=secret&searchTerm=#mySearchTerm"/>
<to uri="bean:myBean"/> </route>

In Java there is a builder class to build compound
`SearchTerm}}s using the {{org.apache.camel.component.mail.SearchTermBuilder`
class. +
This allows you to build complex terms such as:

// we just want the unseen mails which is not spam SearchTermBuilder
builder = new SearchTermBuilder(); builder.unseen().body(Op.not,
"Spam").subject(Op.not, "Spam") // which was sent from either foo or bar
.from("foo@somewhere.com").from(Op.or, "bar@somewhere.com"); // .. and
we could continue building the terms SearchTerm term = builder.build();

link:endpoint-see-also.html[Endpoint See Also]
