[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[MINA-MINAComponent]]
MINA Component
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*Deprecated*

Deprecated

This component is deprecated as the Apache Mina 1.x project is EOL.
Instead use link:mina2.html[MINA2] or link:netty.html[Netty] instead.

The *mina:* component is a transport for working with
http://mina.apache.org/[Apache MINA]

Maven users will need to add the following dependency to their `pom.xml`
for this component:

xml<dependency> <groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId>
<artifactId>camel-mina</artifactId> <version>x.x.x</version> <!-- use
the same version as your Camel core version --> </dependency>

[[MINA-URIformat]]
URI format
^^^^^^^^^^

mina:tcp://hostname[:port][?options]
mina:udp://hostname[:port][?options] mina:vm://hostname[:port][?options]

You can specify a codec in the link:registry.html[Registry] using the
*codec* option. If you are using TCP and no codec is specified then the
`textline` flag is used to determine if text line based codec or object
serialization should be used instead. By default the object
serialization is used.

For UDP if no codec is specified the default uses a basic `ByteBuffer`
based codec.

The VM protocol is used as a direct forwarding mechanism in the same
JVM. See the
http://mina.apache.org/report/1.1/apidocs/org/apache/mina/transport/vmpipe/package-summary.html[MINA
VM-Pipe API documentation] for details.

A Mina producer has a default timeout value of 30 seconds, while it
waits for a response from the remote server.

In normal use, `camel-mina` only supports marshalling the body
contentâ€”message headers and exchange properties are not sent. +
However, the option, *transferExchange*, does allow you to transfer the
exchange itself over the wire. See options below.

You can append query options to the URI in the following format,
`?option=value&option=value&...`

[[MINA-Options]]
Options
^^^^^^^

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Default Value |Description
|`codec` |`null` |You can refer to a named `ProtocolCodecFactory`
instance in your link:registry.html[Registry] such as your Spring
`ApplicationContext`, which is then used for the marshalling.

|`codec` |`null` |You must use the `#` notation to look up your codec in
the link:registry.html[Registry]. For example, use `#myCodec` to look up
a bean with the `id` value, `myCodec`.

|`disconnect` |`false` |*Camel 2.3:* Whether or not to disconnect(close)
from Mina session right after use. Can be used for both consumer and
producer.

|`textline` |`false` |Only used for TCP. If no codec is specified, you
can use this flag to indicate a text line based codec; if not specified
or the value is `false`, then Object Serialization is assumed over TCP.

|`textlineDelimiter` |`DEFAULT` |Only used for TCP and if
*textline=true*. Sets the text line delimiter to use. Possible values
are: `DEFAULT`, `AUTO`, `WINDOWS`, `UNIX` or `MAC`. If none provided,
Camel will use `DEFAULT`. This delimiter is used to mark the end of
text.

|`sync` |`true` |Setting to set endpoint as one-way or request-response.

|`lazySessionCreation` |`true` |Sessions can be lazily created to avoid
exceptions, if the remote server is not up and running when the Camel
producer is started.

|`timeout` |`30000` |You can configure the timeout that specifies how
long to wait for a response from a remote server. The timeout unit is in
milliseconds, so 60000 is 60 seconds. The timeout is only used for Mina
producer.

|`encoding` |_JVM Default_ |You can configure the encoding (a
http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/api/java/nio/charset/Charset.html[charset
name]) to use for the TCP textline codec and the UDP protocol. If not
provided, Camel will use the
http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/api/java/nio/charset/Charset.html#defaultCharset()[JVM
default Charset].

|`transferExchange` |`false` |Only used for TCP. You can transfer the
exchange over the wire instead of just the body. The following fields
are transferred: In body, Out body, fault body, In headers, Out headers,
fault headers, exchange properties, exchange exception. This requires
that the objects are _serializable_. Camel will exclude any
non-serializable objects and log it at `WARN` level.

|`minaLogger` |`false` |You can enable the Apache MINA logging filter.
Apache MINA uses `slf4j` logging at `INFO` level to log all input and
output.

|`filters` |`null` a|
You can set a list of http://mina.apache.org/iofilter.html[Mina
IoFilters] to register. The `filters` value must be one of the
following:

* *Camel 2.2:* comma-separated list of bean references (e.g.
`#filterBean1,#filterBean2`) where each bean must be of type
`org.apache.mina.common.IoFilter`.
* *before Camel 2.2:* a reference to a bean of type
`List<org.apache.mina.common.IoFilter>`.

|`encoderMaxLineLength` |`-1` |As of 2.1, you can set the textline
protocol encoder max line length. By default the default value of Mina
itself is used which are `Integer.MAX_VALUE`.

|`decoderMaxLineLength` |`-1` |As of 2.1, you can set the textline
protocol decoder max line length. By default the default value of Mina
itself is used which are 1024.

|`producerPoolSize` |16 |The TCP producer is thread safe and supports
concurrency much better. This option allows you to configure the number
of threads in its thread pool for concurrent producers. *Note:* Camel
has a pooled service which ensured it was already thread safe and
supported concurrency already.

|`allowDefaultCodec` |`true` |The mina component installs a default
codec if both, `codec` is `null` and `textline` is `false`. Setting
`allowDefaultCodec` to `false` prevents the mina component from
installing a default codec as the first element in the filter chain.
This is useful in scenarios where another filter must be the first in
the filter chain, like the SSL filter.

|`disconnectOnNoReply` |`true` |*Camel 2.3:* If sync is enabled then
this option dictates MinaConsumer if it should disconnect where there is
no reply to send back.

|`noReplyLogLevel` |`WARN` |*Camel 2.3:* If sync is enabled this option
dictates MinaConsumer which logging level to use when logging a there is
no reply to send back. Values are: `FATAL, ERROR, INFO, DEBUG, OFF`.

|`clientMode` |`false` |*Camel 2.15:* Consumer only. If the `clientMode`
is true, mina consumer will connect the address as a TCP client.
|=======================================================================

[[MINA-Usingacustomcodec]]
Using a custom codec
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

See the http://mina.apache.org/tutorial-on-protocolcodecfilter.html[Mina
documentation] how to write your own codec. To use your custom codec
with `camel-mina`, you should register your codec in the
link:registry.html[Registry]; for example, by creating a bean in the
Spring XML file. Then use the `codec` option to specify the bean ID of
your codec. See link:hl7.html[HL7] that has a custom codec.

[[MINA-Samplewithsync=false]]
Sample with sync=false
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In this sample, Camel exposes a service that listens for TCP connections
on port 6200. We use the *textline* codec. In our route, we create a
Mina consumer endpoint that listens on port 6200:

\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-mina/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/mina/MinaConsumerTest.java}

As the sample is part of a unit test, we test it by sending some data to
it on port 6200.

\{snippet:id=e2|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-mina/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/mina/MinaConsumerTest.java}

[[MINA-Samplewithsync=true]]
Sample with sync=true
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In the next sample, we have a more common use case where we expose a TCP
service on port 6201 also use the textline codec. However, this time we
want to return a response, so we set the `sync` option to `true` on the
consumer.

\{snippet:id=e3|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-mina/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/mina/MinaConsumerTest.java}

Then we test the sample by sending some data and retrieving the response
using the `template.requestBody()` method. As we know the response is a
`String`, we cast it to `String` and can assert that the response is, in
fact, something we have dynamically set in our processor code logic.

\{snippet:id=e4|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-mina/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/mina/MinaConsumerTest.java}

[[MINA-SamplewithSpringDSL]]
Sample with Spring DSL
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Spring DSL can, of course, also be used for link:mina.html[MINA]. In the
sample below we expose a TCP server on port 5555:

xml <route> <from uri="mina:tcp://localhost:5555?textline=true"/> <to
uri="bean:myTCPOrderHandler"/> </route>

In the route above, we expose a TCP server on port 5555 using the
textline codec. We let the Spring bean with ID, `myTCPOrderHandler`,
handle the request and return a reply. For instance, the handler bean
could be implemented as follows:

java public String handleOrder(String payload) \{ ... return "Order: OK"
}

[[MINA-ConfiguringMinaendpointsusingSpringbeanstyle]]
Configuring Mina endpoints using Spring bean style
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Configuration of Mina endpoints is possible using regular Spring bean
style configuration in the Spring DSL.

However, in the underlying Apache Mina toolkit, it is relatively
difficult to set up the acceptor and the connector, because you can
_not_ use simple setters. To resolve this difficulty, we leverage the
`MinaComponent` as a Spring factory bean to configure this for us. If
you really need to configure this yourself, there are setters on the
`MinaEndpoint` to set these when needed.

The sample below shows the factory approach:

\{snippet:id=e1|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-mina/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/component/mina/SpringMinaEndpointTest-context.xml}

And then we can refer to our endpoint directly in the route, as follows:

\{snippet:id=e2|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-mina/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/component/mina/SpringMinaEndpointTest-context.xml}

[[MINA-ClosingSessionWhenComplete]]
Closing Session When Complete
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When acting as a server you sometimes want to close the session when,
for example, a client conversion is finished. To instruct Camel to close
the session, you should add a header with the key
`CamelMinaCloseSessionWhenComplete` set to a boolean `true` value.

For instance, the example below will close the session after it has
written the `bye` message back to the client:

java
from("mina:tcp://localhost:8080?sync=true&textline=true").process(new
Processor() \{ public void process(Exchange exchange) throws Exception
\{ String body = exchange.getIn().getBody(String.class);
exchange.getOut().setBody("Bye " + body);
exchange.getOut().setHeader(MinaConstants.MINA_CLOSE_SESSION_WHEN_COMPLETE,
true); } });

[[MINA-GettheIoSessionformessage]]
Get the IoSession for message
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available since Camel 2.1* +
You can get the IoSession from the message header with this key
MinaEndpoint.HEADER_MINA_IOSESSION, and also get the local host address
with the key MinaEndpoint.HEADER_LOCAL_ADDRESS and remote host address
with the key MinaEndpoint.HEADER_REMOTE_ADDRESS.

[[MINA-ConfiguringMinafilters]]
Configuring Mina filters
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Filters permit you to use some Mina Filters, such as `SslFilter`. You
can also implement some customized filters. Please note that `codec` and
`logger` are also implemented as Mina filters of type, `IoFilter`. Any
filters you may define are appended to the end of the filter chain; that
is, after `codec` and `logger`.

If using the `SslFilter` you need to add the `mina-filter-ssl` JAR to
the classpath.

For instance, the example below will send a keep-alive message after 10
seconds of inactivity:

javapublic class KeepAliveFilter extends IoFilterAdapter \{ @Override
public void sessionCreated(NextFilter nextFilter, IoSession session)
throws Exception \{ session.setIdleTime(IdleStatus.BOTH_IDLE, 10);
nextFilter.sessionCreated(session); } @Override public void
sessionIdle(NextFilter nextFilter, IoSession session, IdleStatus status)
throws Exception \{ session.write("NOOP"); // NOOP is a FTP command for
keep alive nextFilter.sessionIdle(session, status); } }

As Camel Mina may use a request-reply scheme, the endpoint as a client
would like to drop some message, such as greeting when the connection is
established. For example, when you connect to an FTP server, you will
get a `220` message with a greeting (`220 Welcome to Pure-FTPd`). If you
don't drop the message, your request-reply scheme will be broken.

javapublic class DropGreetingFilter extends IoFilterAdapter \{ @Override
public void messageReceived(NextFilter nextFilter, IoSession session,
Object message) throws Exception \{ if (message instanceof String) \{
String ftpMessage = (String) message; // "220" is given as greeting.
"200 Zzz" is given as a response to "NOOP" (keep alive) if
(ftpMessage.startsWith("220") || or ftpMessage.startsWith("200 Zzz")) \{
// Dropping greeting return; } } nextFilter.messageReceived(session,
message); } }

Then, you can configure your endpoint using Spring DSL:

xml<bean id="myMinaFactory"
class="org.apache.camel.component.mina.MinaComponent"> <constructor-arg
index="0" ref="camelContext" /> </bean> <bean id="myMinaEndpoint"
factory-bean="myMinaFactory" factory-method="createEndpoint">
<constructor-arg index="0" ref="myMinaConfig"/> </bean> <bean
id="myMinaConfig"
class="org.apache.camel.component.mina.MinaConfiguration"> <property
name="protocol" value="tcp" /> <property name="host" value="localhost"
/> <property name="port" value="2121" /> <property name="sync"
value="true" /> <property name="minaLogger" value="true" /> <property
name="filters" ref="listFilters"/> </bean> <bean id="listFilters"
class="java.util.ArrayList" > <constructor-arg> <list
value-type="org.apache.mina.common.IoFilter"> <bean
class="com.example.KeepAliveFilter"/> <bean
class="com.example.DropGreetingFilter"/> </list> </constructor-arg>
</bean>

link:endpoint-see-also.html[Endpoint See Also]

* link:mina2.html[MINA2]
* link:netty.html[Netty]
