[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[Multicast-Multicast]]
Multicast
^^^^^^^^^

The Multicast allows to route the same message to a number of endpoints
and process them in a different way. The main difference between the
Multicast and Splitter is that Splitter will split the message into
several pieces but the Multicast will not modify the request message.

[[Multicast-Options]]
Options
^^^^^^^

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Name |Default Value |Description
|`strategyRef` |  |Refers to an
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/processor/aggregate/AggregationStrategy.html[AggregationStrategy]
to be used to assemble the replies from the multicasts, into a single
outgoing message from the link:multicast.html[Multicast]. By default
Camel will use the last reply as the outgoing message. From *Camel 2.12*
onwards you can also use a POJO as the `AggregationStrategy`, see the
link:aggregator2.html[Aggregate] page for more details. If an exception
is thrown from the aggregate method in the AggregationStrategy, then by
default, that exception is not handled by the error handler. The error
handler can be enabled to react if enabling the shareUnitOfWork option.

|`strategyMethodName` |  |*Camel 2.12:* This option can be used to
explicit declare the method name to use, when using POJOs as the
`AggregationStrategy`. See the link:aggregator2.html[Aggregate] page for
more details.

|`strategyMethodAllowNull` |`false` |*Camel 2.12:* If this option is
`false` then the aggregate method is not used if there was no data to
enrich. If this option is `true` then `null` values is used as the
`oldExchange` (when no data to enrich), when using POJOs as the
`AggregationStrategy`. See the link:aggregator2.html[Aggregate] page for
more details.

|`parallelProcessing` |`false` |If enabled then sending messages to the
multicasts occurs concurrently. Note the caller thread will still wait
until all messages has been fully processed, before it continues. Its
only the sending and processing the replies from the multicasts which
happens concurrently. | 

|`parallelAggregate` |`false` |*Camel 2.14:* If enabled then the
`aggregate` method on `AggregationStrategy` can be called concurrently.
Notice that this would require the implementation of
`AggregationStrategy` to be implemented as thread-safe. By default this
is `false` meaning that Camel synchronizes the call to the `aggregate`
method. Though in some use-cases this can be used to archive higher
performance when the `AggregationStrategy` is implemented as
thread-safe.

|`executorServiceRef` |  |Refers to a custom
link:threading-model.html[Thread Pool] to be used for parallel
processing. Notice if you set this option, then parallel processing is
automatic implied, and you do not have to enable that option as well.

|`stopOnException` |`false` |*Camel 2.2:* Whether or not to stop
continue processing immediately when an exception occurred. If disable,
then Camel will send the message to all multicasts regardless if one of
them failed. You can deal with exceptions in the
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/processor/aggregate/AggregationStrategy.html[AggregationStrategy]
class where you have full control how to handle that.

|`streaming` |`false` |If enabled then Camel will process replies
out-of-order, eg in the order they come back. If disabled, Camel will
process replies in the same order as multicasted.

|`timeout` |  |*Camel 2.5:* Sets a total timeout specified in millis. If
the link:multicast.html[Multicast] hasn't been able to send and process
all replies within the given timeframe, then the timeout triggers and
the link:multicast.html[Multicast] breaks out and continues. Notice if
you provide a
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/processor/aggregate/TimeoutAwareAggregationStrategy.html[TimeoutAwareAggregationStrategy]
then the `timeout` method is invoked before breaking out. If the timeout
is reached with running tasks still remaining, certain tasks for which
it is difficult for Camel to shut down in a graceful manner may continue
to run. So use this option with a bit of care. We may be able to improve
this functionality in future Camel releases.

|`onPrepareRef` |  |*Camel 2.8:* Refers to a custom
link:processor.html[Processor] to prepare the copy of the
link:exchange.html[Exchange] each multicast will receive. This allows
you to do any custom logic, such as deep-cloning the message payload if
that's needed etc.

|`shareUnitOfWork` |`false` |*Camel 2.8:* Whether the unit of work
should be shared. See the same option on link:splitter.html[Splitter]
for more details.
|=======================================================================

[[Multicast-Example]]
Example
+++++++

The following example shows how to take a request from the *direct:a*
endpoint , then multicast these request to *direct:x*, *direct:y*,
*direct:z*.

*Using the link:fluent-builders.html[Fluent
Builders]*\{snippet:id=example|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/MulticastTest.java}By
default Multicast invokes each endpoint sequentially. If parallel
processing is desired, simply use

from("direct:a").multicast().parallelProcessing().to("direct:x",
"direct:y", "direct:z");

In case of using InOut MEP, an AggregationStrategy is used for
aggregating all reply messages. The default is to only use the latest
reply message and discard any earlier replies. The aggregation strategy
is configurable:

from("direct:start") .multicast(new MyAggregationStrategy())
.parallelProcessing().timeout(500).to("direct:a", "direct:b",
"direct:c") .end() .to("mock:result");

[[Multicast-Stopprocessingincaseofexception]]
Stop processing in case of exception
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.1*

The link:multicast.html[Multicast] will by default continue to process
the entire link:exchange.html[Exchange] even in case one of the
multicasted messages will thrown an exception during routing. +
For example if you want to multicast to 3 destinations and the 2nd
destination fails by an exception. What Camel does by default is to
process the remainder destinations. You have the chance to remedy or
handle this in the `AggregationStrategy`.

But sometimes you just want Camel to stop and let the exception be
propagated back, and let the Camel error handler handle it. You can do
this in Camel 2.1 by specifying that it should stop in case of an
exception occurred. This is done by the `stopOnException` option as
shown below:

from("direct:start") .multicast() .stopOnException().to("direct:foo",
"direct:bar", "direct:baz") .end() .to("mock:result");
from("direct:foo").to("mock:foo"); from("direct:bar").process(new
MyProcessor()).to("mock:bar"); from("direct:baz").to("mock:baz");

And using XML DSL you specify it as follows:

xml <route> <from uri="direct:start"/> <multicast
stopOnException="true"> <to uri="direct:foo"/> <to uri="direct:bar"/>
<to uri="direct:baz"/> </multicast> <to uri="mock:result"/> </route>
<route> <from uri="direct:foo"/> <to uri="mock:foo"/> </route> <route>
<from uri="direct:bar"/> <process ref="myProcessor"/> <to
uri="mock:bar"/> </route> <route> <from uri="direct:baz"/> <to
uri="mock:baz"/> </route>

[[Multicast-UsingonPreparetoexecutecustomlogicwhenpreparingmessages]]
Using onPrepare to execute custom logic when preparing messages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.8*

The link:multicast.html[Multicast] will copy the source
link:exchange.html[Exchange] and multicast each copy. However the copy
is a shallow copy, so in case you have mutateable message bodies, then
any changes will be visible by the other copied messages. If you want to
use a deep clone copy then you need to use a custom `onPrepare` which
allows you to do this using the link:processor.html[Processor]
interface.

Notice the `onPrepare` can be used for any kind of custom logic which
you would like to execute before the link:exchange.html[Exchange] is
being multicasted.

Design for immutable

Its best practice to design for immutable objects.

For example if you have a mutable message body as this Animal
class:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|title=Animal|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/Animal.java}Then
we can create a deep clone processor which clones the message
body:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|title=AnimalDeepClonePrepare|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/AnimalDeepClonePrepare.java}Then
we can use the AnimalDeepClonePrepare class in the
link:multicast.html[Multicast] route using the `onPrepare` option as
shown:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|title=Multicast using
onPrepare|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/MulticastOnPrepareTest.java}And
the same example in XML DSL\{snippet:id=e1|lang=xml|title=Multicast
using
onPrepare|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-spring/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/spring/processor/MulticastOnPrepareTest.xml}Notice
the `onPrepare` option is also available on other link:eip.html[EIP]s
such as link:splitter.html[Splitter], link:recipient-list.html[Recipient
List], and link:wire-tap.html[Wire Tap].

link:using-this-pattern.html[Using This Pattern]
