[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[MyBatis-MyBatis]]
MyBatis
~~~~~~~

*Available as of Camel 2.7*

The *mybatis:* component allows you to query, poll, insert, update and
delete data in a relational database using http://mybatis.org/[MyBatis].

Maven users will need to add the following dependency to their `pom.xml`
for this component:

xml<dependency> <groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId>
<artifactId>camel-mybatis</artifactId> <version>x.x.x</version> <!-- use
the same version as your Camel core version --> </dependency>

[[MyBatis-URIformat]]
URI format
^^^^^^^^^^

mybatis:statementName[?options]

Where *statementName* is the statement name in the MyBatis XML mapping
file which maps to the query, insert, update or delete operation you
wish to evaluate.

You can append query options to the URI in the following format,
`?option=value&option=value&...`

This component will by default load the MyBatis SqlMapConfig file from
the root of the classpath with the expected name of
`SqlMapConfig.xml`. +
If the file is located in another location, you will need to configure
the `configurationUri` option on the `MyBatisComponent` component.

[[MyBatis-Options]]
Options
^^^^^^^

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="25%,25%,25%,25%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Type |Default |Description
|`consumer.onConsume` |`String` |`null` |Statements to run after
consuming. Can be used, for example, to update rows after they have been
consumed and processed in Camel. See sample later. Multiple statements
can be separated with commas.

|`consumer.useIterator` |`boolean` |`true` |If `true` each row returned
when polling will be processed individually. If `false` the entire
`List` of data is set as the IN body.

|`consumer.routeEmptyResultSet` |`boolean` |`false` |Sets whether empty
result sets should be routed.

|`statementType` |`StatementType` |`null` |Mandatory to specify for the
producer to control which kind of operation to invoke. The enum values
are: `SelectOne`, `SelectList`, `Insert`, `InsertList`, `Update`,
`UpdateList`, `Delete`, and `DeleteList`. *Notice:* `InsertList` is
available as of Camel 2.10, and `UpdateList`, `DeleteList` is available
as of Camel 2.11.

|`maxMessagesPerPoll` |`int` |`0` |This option is intended to split
results returned by the database pool into the batches and deliver them
in multiple exchanges. This integer defines the maximum messages to
deliver in single exchange. By default, no maximum is set. Can be used
to set a limit of e.g. 1000 to avoid when starting up the server that
there are thousands of files. Set a value of 0 or negative to disable
it.

|`executorType` |`String` |`null` |*Camel 2.11:* The executor type to be
used while executing statements. The supported values are: simple,
reuse, batch. By default, the value is not specified and is equal to
what MyBatis uses, i.e. *simple*. +
*simple* executor does nothing special. +
*reuse* executor reuses prepared statements. +
*batch* executor reuses statements and batches updates.

|`outputHeader` |`String` |`null` |**Camel 2.15:** To store the result
as a header instead of the message body. This allows to preserve the
existing message body as-is.

|`inputHeader` |`String` |`null` |*Camel 2.15:  *"inputHeader" parameter
to use a header value as input to the component instead of the body.

|`transacted` |`boolean` |`false` |**Camel 2.16.2:** **SQL consumer
only:**Enables or disables transaction. If enabled then if processing an
exchange failed then the consumer break out processing any further
exchanges to cause a rollback eager
|=======================================================================

[[MyBatis-MessageHeaders]]
Message Headers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Camel will populate the result message, either IN or OUT with a header
with the statement used:

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Header |Type |Description
|`CamelMyBatisStatementName` |`String` |The *statementName* used (for
example: insertAccount).

|`CamelMyBatisResult` |`Object` |The *response* returned from MtBatis in
any of the operations. For instance an `INSERT` could return the
auto-generated key, or number of rows etc.
|=======================================================================

[[MyBatis-MessageBody]]
Message Body
^^^^^^^^^^^^

The response from MyBatis will only be set as the body if it's a
`SELECT` statement. That means, for example, for `INSERT` statements
Camel will not replace the body. This allows you to continue routing and
keep the original body. The response from MyBatis is always stored in
the header with the key `CamelMyBatisResult`.

[[MyBatis-Samples]]
Samples
^^^^^^^

For example if you wish to consume beans from a JMS queue and insert
them into a database you could do the following:

from("activemq:queue:newAccount").
to("mybatis:insertAccount?statementType=Insert");

Notice we have to specify the `statementType`, as we need to instruct
Camel which kind of operation to invoke.

Where *insertAccount* is the MyBatis ID in the SQL mapping file:

xml <!-- Insert example, using the Account parameter class --> <insert
id="insertAccount" parameterType="Account"> insert into ACCOUNT (
ACC_ID, ACC_FIRST_NAME, ACC_LAST_NAME, ACC_EMAIL ) values ( #\{id},
#\{firstName}, #\{lastName}, #\{emailAddress} ) </insert>

[[MyBatis-UsingStatementTypeforbettercontrolofMyBatis]]
Using StatementType for better control of MyBatis
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When routing to an MyBatis endpoint you will want more fine grained
control so you can control whether the SQL statement to be executed is a
`SELECT`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE` or `INSERT` etc. So for instance if we want
to route to an MyBatis endpoint in which the IN body contains parameters
to a `SELECT` statement we can
do:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-mybatis/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/mybatis/MyBatisSelectOneTest.java}In
the code above we can invoke the MyBatis statement `selectAccountById`
and the IN body should contain the account id we want to retrieve, such
as an `Integer` type.

We can do the same for some of the other operations, such as
`SelectList`:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-mybatis/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/mybatis/MyBatisSelectListTest.java}And
the same for `UPDATE`, where we can send an `Account` object as the IN
body to
MyBatis:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-mybatis/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/mybatis/MyBatisUpdateTest.java}

[[MyBatis-UsingInsertListStatementType]]
Using InsertList StatementType
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*Available as of Camel 2.10*

MyBatis allows you to insert multiple rows using its for-each batch
driver. To use this, you need to use the <foreach> in the mapper XML
file. For example as shown
below:\{snippet:id=insertList|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-mybatis/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/component/mybatis/Account.xml}Then
you can insert multiple rows, by sending a Camel message to the
`mybatis` endpoint which uses the `InsertList` statement type, as shown
below:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-mybatis/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/mybatis/MyBatisInsertListTest.java}

[[MyBatis-UsingUpdateListStatementType]]
Using UpdateList StatementType
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*Available as of Camel 2.11*

MyBatis allows you to update multiple rows using its for-each batch
driver. To use this, you need to use the <foreach> in the mapper XML
file. For example as shown below:

xml<update id="batchUpdateAccount" parameterType="java.util.Map"> update
ACCOUNT set ACC_EMAIL = #\{emailAddress} where ACC_ID in <foreach
item="Account" collection="list" open="(" close=")" separator=",">
#\{Account.id} </foreach> </update>

Then you can update multiple rows, by sending a Camel message to the
mybatis endpoint which uses the UpdateList statement type, as shown
below:

from("direct:start")
.to("mybatis:batchUpdateAccount?statementType=UpdateList")
.to("mock:result");

[[MyBatis-UsingDeleteListStatementType]]
Using DeleteList StatementType
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*Available as of Camel 2.11*

MyBatis allows you to delete multiple rows using its for-each batch
driver. To use this, you need to use the <foreach> in the mapper XML
file. For example as shown below:

xml<delete id="batchDeleteAccountById" parameterType="java.util.List">
delete from ACCOUNT where ACC_ID in <foreach item="AccountID"
collection="list" open="(" close=")" separator=","> #\{AccountID}
</foreach> </delete>

Then you can delete multiple rows, by sending a Camel message to the
mybatis endpoint which uses the DeleteList statement type, as shown
below:

from("direct:start")
.to("mybatis:batchDeleteAccount?statementType=DeleteList")
.to("mock:result");

[[MyBatis-NoticeonInsertList,UpdateListandDeleteListStatementTypes]]
Notice on InsertList, UpdateList and DeleteList StatementTypes
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Parameter of any type (List, Map, etc.) can be passed to mybatis and an
end user is responsible for handling it as required +
with the help of http://www.mybatis.org/core/dynamic-sql.html[mybatis
dynamic queries] capabilities.

[[MyBatis-Scheduledpollingexample]]
Scheduled polling example
+++++++++++++++++++++++++

This component supports scheduled polling and can therefore be used as
a link:polling-consumer.html[Polling Consumer]. For example to poll the
database every minute:

from("mybatis:selectAllAccounts?delay=60000").to("activemq:queue:allAccounts");

See "ScheduledPollConsumer Options"
on link:polling-consumer.html[Polling Consumer] for more options.

Alternatively you can use another mechanism for triggering the scheduled
polls, such as the link:timer.html[Timer] or link:quartz.html[Quartz]
components. In the sample below we poll the database, every 30 seconds
using the link:timer.html[Timer] component and send the data to the JMS
queue:

javafrom("timer://pollTheDatabase?delay=30000").to("mybatis:selectAllAccounts").to("activemq:queue:allAccounts");

And the MyBatis SQL mapping file used:

xml <!-- Select with no parameters using the result map for Account
class. --> <select id="selectAllAccounts" resultMap="AccountResult">
select * from ACCOUNT </select>

[[MyBatis-UsingonConsume]]
Using onConsume
+++++++++++++++

This component supports executing statements *after* data have been
consumed and processed by Camel. This allows you to do post updates in
the database. Notice all statements must be `UPDATE` statements. Camel
supports executing multiple statements whose names should be separated
by commas.

The route below illustrates we execute the *consumeAccount* statement
data is processed. This allows us to change the status of the row in the
database to processed, so we avoid consuming it twice or
more.\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-mybatis/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/mybatis/MyBatisQueueTest.java}And
the statements in the sqlmap
file:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-mybatis/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/component/mybatis/Account.xml}\{snippet:id=e2|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-mybatis/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/component/mybatis/Account.xml}

[[MyBatis-Participatingintransactions]]
Participating in transactions
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Setting up a transaction manager under camel-mybatis can be a little bit
fiddly, as it involves externalising the database configuration outside
the standard MyBatis `SqlMapConfig.xml` file.

The first part requires the setup of a `DataSource`. This is typically a
pool (either DBCP, or c3p0), which needs to be wrapped in a Spring
proxy. This proxy enables non-Spring use of the `DataSource` to
participate in Spring transactions (the MyBatis `SqlSessionFactory` does
just this).

xml <bean id="dataSource"
class="org.springframework.jdbc.datasource.TransactionAwareDataSourceProxy">
<constructor-arg> <bean
class="com.mchange.v2.c3p0.ComboPooledDataSource"> <property
name="driverClass" value="org.postgresql.Driver"/> <property
name="jdbcUrl" value="jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/myDatabase"/>
<property name="user" value="myUser"/> <property name="password"
value="myPassword"/> </bean> </constructor-arg> </bean>

This has the additional benefit of enabling the database configuration
to be externalised using property placeholders.

A transaction manager is then configured to manage the outermost
`DataSource`:

xml <bean id="txManager"
class="org.springframework.jdbc.datasource.DataSourceTransactionManager">
<property name="dataSource" ref="dataSource"/> </bean>

A http://www.mybatis.org/spring/index.html[mybatis-spring]
http://www.mybatis.org/spring/factorybean.html[`SqlSessionFactoryBean`]
then wraps that same `DataSource`:

xml <bean id="sqlSessionFactory"
class="org.mybatis.spring.SqlSessionFactoryBean"> <property
name="dataSource" ref="dataSource"/> <!-- standard mybatis config file
--> <property name="configLocation" value="/META-INF/SqlMapConfig.xml"/>
<!-- externalised mappers --> <property name="mapperLocations"
value="classpath*:META-INF/mappers/**/*.xml"/> </bean>

The camel-mybatis component is then configured with that factory:

xml <bean id="mybatis"
class="org.apache.camel.component.mybatis.MyBatisComponent"> <property
name="sqlSessionFactory" ref="sqlSessionFactory"/> </bean>

Finally, a link:transactional-client.html[transaction policy] is defined
over the top of the transaction manager, which can then be used as
usual:

xml <bean id="PROPAGATION_REQUIRED"
class="org.apache.camel.spring.spi.SpringTransactionPolicy"> <property
name="transactionManager" ref="txManager"/> <property
name="propagationBehaviorName" value="PROPAGATION_REQUIRED"/> </bean>
<camelContext id="my-model-context"
xmlns="http://camel.apache.org/schema/spring"> <route id="insertModel">
<from uri="direct:insert"/> <transacted ref="PROPAGATION_REQUIRED"/> <to
uri="mybatis:myModel.insert?statementType=Insert"/> </route>
</camelContext>

link:endpoint-see-also.html[Endpoint See Also]
