[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[Netty-NettyComponent]]
Netty Component
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*Available as of Camel 2.3*

This component is deprecated. You should use link:netty4.html[Netty4].

The *netty* component in Camel is a socket communication component,
based on the http://netty.io/[Netty] project.

Netty is a NIO client server framework which enables quick and easy
development of network applications such as protocol servers and
clients. +
Netty greatly simplifies and streamlines network programming such as TCP
and UDP socket server.

This camel component supports both producer and consumer endpoints.

The Netty component has several options and allows fine-grained control
of a number of TCP/UDP communication parameters (buffer sizes,
keepAlives, tcpNoDelay etc) and facilitates both In-Only and In-Out
communication on a Camel route.

Maven users will need to add the following dependency to their `pom.xml`
for this component:

xml<dependency> <groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId>
<artifactId>camel-netty</artifactId> <version>x.x.x</version> <!-- use
the same version as your Camel core version --> </dependency>

[[Netty-URIformat]]
URI format
^^^^^^^^^^

The URI scheme for a netty component is as follows

netty:tcp://localhost:99999[?options]
netty:udp://remotehost:99999/[?options]

This component supports producer and consumer endpoints for both TCP and
UDP.

You can append query options to the URI in the following format,
`?option=value&option=value&...`

[[Netty-Options]]
Options
^^^^^^^

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Name |Default Value |Description
|`keepAlive` |`true` |Setting to ensure socket is not closed due to
inactivity

|`tcpNoDelay` |`true` |Setting to improve TCP protocol performance

|`backlog` |Â  |*Camel 2.9.6/2.10.4/2.11:* Allows to configure a backlog
for netty consumer (server). Note the backlog is just a best effort
depending on the OS. Setting this option to a value such as `200`, `500`
or `1000`, tells the TCP stack how long the "accept" queue can be. If
this option is not configured, then the backlog depends on OS setting.

|`broadcast` |`false` |Setting to choose Multicast over UDP

|`connectTimeout` |`10000` |Time to wait for a socket connection to be
available. Value is in millis.

|`reuseAddress` |`true` |Setting to facilitate socket multiplexing

|`sync` |`true` |Setting to set endpoint as one-way or request-response

|`synchronous` |`false` |*Camel 2.10:* Whether
link:asynchronous-routing-engine.html[Asynchronous Routing Engine] is
not in use. `false` then the
link:asynchronous-routing-engine.html[Asynchronous Routing Engine] is
used, `true` to force processing synchronous.

|`ssl` |`false` |Setting to specify whether SSL encryption is applied to
this endpoint

|`sslClientCertHeaders` |`false` |*Camel 2.12:* When enabled and in SSL
mode, then the Netty consumer will enrich the Camel
link:message.html[Message] with headers having information about the
client certificate such as subject name, issuer name, serial number, and
the valid date range.

|`sendBufferSize` |`65536 bytes` |The TCP/UDP buffer sizes to be used
during outbound communication. Size is bytes.

|`receiveBufferSize` |`65536 bytes` |The TCP/UDP buffer sizes to be used
during inbound communication. Size is bytes.

|`option.XXX` |`null` |*Camel 2.11/2.10.4:* Allows to configure
additional netty options using "option." as prefix. For example
"option.child.keepAlive=false" to set the netty option
"child.keepAlive=false". See the Netty documentation for possible
options that can be used.

|`corePoolSize` |`10` |The number of allocated threads at component
startup. Defaults to 10. *Note:* This option is removed from Camel 2.9.2
onwards. As we rely on Nettys default settings.

|`maxPoolSize` |`100` |The maximum number of threads that may be
allocated to this endpoint. Defaults to 100. *Note:* This option is
removed from Camel 2.9.2 onwards. As we rely on Nettys default settings.

|`disconnect` |`false` |Whether or not to disconnect(close) from Netty
Channel right after use. Can be used for both consumer and producer.

|`lazyChannelCreation` |`true` |Channels can be lazily created to avoid
exceptions, if the remote server is not up and running when the Camel
producer is started.

|`transferExchange` |`false` |Only used for TCP. You can transfer the
exchange over the wire instead of just the body. The following fields
are transferred: In body, Out body, fault body, In headers, Out headers,
fault headers, exchange properties, exchange exception. This requires
that the objects are serializable. Camel will exclude any
non-serializable objects and log it at WARN level.

|`disconnectOnNoReply` |`true` |If sync is enabled then this option
dictates NettyConsumer if it should disconnect where there is no reply
to send back.

|`noReplyLogLevel` |`WARN` |If sync is enabled this option dictates
NettyConsumer which logging level to use when logging a there is no
reply to send back. Values are: `FATAL, ERROR, INFO, DEBUG, OFF`.

|`serverExceptionCaughtLogLevel` |`WARN` |*Camel 2.11.1:* If the server
(NettyConsumer) catches an exception then its logged using this logging
level.

|`serverClosedChannelExceptionCaughtLogLevel` |`DEBUG` |*Camel 2.11.1:*
If the server (NettyConsumer) catches an
`java.nio.channels.ClosedChannelException` then its logged using this
logging level. This is used to avoid logging the closed channel
exceptions, as clients can disconnect abruptly and then cause a flod of
closed exceptions in the Netty server.

|`allowDefaultCodec` |`true` |*Camel 2.4:* The netty component installs
a default codec if both, encoder/deocder is null and textline is false.
Setting allowDefaultCodec to false prevents the netty component from
installing a default codec as the first element in the filter chain.

|`textline` |`false` |*Camel 2.4:* Only used for TCP. If no codec is
specified, you can use this flag to indicate a text line based codec; if
not specified or the value is false, then Object Serialization is
assumed over TCP.

|`delimiter` |`LINE` |*Camel 2.4:* The delimiter to use for the textline
codec. Possible values are `LINE` and `NULL`.

|`decoderMaxLineLength` |`1024` |*Camel 2.4:* The max line length to use
for the textline codec.

|`autoAppendDelimiter` |`true` |*Camel 2.4:* Whether or not to auto
append missing end delimiter when sending using the textline codec.

|`encoding` |`null` |*Camel 2.4:* The encoding (a charset name) to use
for the textline codec. If not provided, Camel will use the JVM default
Charset.

|`workerCount` |`null` |*Camel 2.9:* When netty works on nio mode, it
uses default workerCount parameter from Netty, which is
cpu_core_threads*2. User can use this operation to override the default
workerCount from Netty

|`sslContextParameters` |`null` |*Camel 2.9:* SSL configuration using an
`org.apache.camel.util.jsse.SSLContextParameters` instance. See
link:netty.html[Using the JSSE Configuration Utility].

|`receiveBufferSizePredictor` |`null` |*Camel 2.9:* Configures the
buffer size predictor. See details at Jetty documentation and this
http://lists.jboss.org/pipermail/netty-users/2010-January/001958.html[mail
thread].

|`requestTimeout` |`0` |*Camel 2.11.1:* Allows to use a timeout for the
Netty producer when calling a remote server. By default no timeout is in
use. The value is in milli seconds, so eg `30000` is 30 seconds. The
requestTimeout is using Netty's ReadTimeoutHandler to trigger the
timeout. *Camel 2.16, 2.15.3* you can also override this setting by
setting the CamelNettyRequestTimeout header.

|`needClientAuth` |`false` |*Camel 2.11:* Configures whether the server
needs client authentication when using SSL.

|`orderedThreadPoolExecutor` |`true` |*Camel 2.10.2:* Whether to use
ordered thread pool, to ensure events are processed orderly on the same
channel. See details at the netty javadoc of
`org.jboss.netty.handler.execution.OrderedMemoryAwareThreadPoolExecutor`
for more details.

|`maximumPoolSize` |`16` a|
*Camel 2.10.2:* The core pool size for the ordered thread pool, if its
in use.

*Since Camel 2.14.1*: This option is move the NettyComponent.

|`producerPoolEnabled` |`true` |*Camel 2.10.4/Camel 2.11:* Producer
only. Whether producer pool is enabled or not. *Important:* Do not turn
this off, as the pooling is needed for handling concurrency and reliable
request/reply.

|`producerPoolMaxActive` |`-1` |*Camel 2.10.3:* Producer only. Sets the
cap on the number of objects that can be allocated by the pool (checked
out to clients, or idle awaiting checkout) at a given time. Use a
negative value for no limit.

|`producerPoolMinIdle` |`0` |*Camel 2.10.3:* Producer only. Sets the
minimum number of instances allowed in the producer pool before the
evictor thread (if active) spawns new objects.

|`producerPoolMaxIdle` |`100` |*Camel 2.10.3:* Producer only. Sets the
cap on the number of "idle" instances in the pool.

|`producerPoolMinEvictableIdle` |`300000` |*Camel 2.10.3:* Producer
only. Sets the minimum amount of time (value in millis) an object may
sit idle in the pool before it is eligible for eviction by the idle
object evictor.

|`bootstrapConfiguration` |`null` |*Camel 2.12:* Consumer only. Allows
to configure the Netty ServerBootstrap options using a
`org.apache.camel.component.netty.NettyServerBootstrapConfiguration`
instance. This can be used to reuse the same configuration for multiple
consumers, to align their configuration more easily.

|`bossPoll` |`null` |*Camel 2.12:* To use a explicit
`org.jboss.netty.channel.socket.nio.BossPool` as the boss thread pool.
For example to share a thread pool with multiple consumers. By default
each consumer has their own boss pool with 1 core thread.

|`workerPool` |`null` |*Camel 2.12:* To use a explicit
`org.jboss.netty.channel.socket.nio.WorkerPool` as the worker thread
pool. For example to share a thread pool with multiple consumers. By
default each consumer has their own worker pool with 2 x cpu count core
threads.

|channelGroup |null |*Camel 2.17* To use a explicit
`io.netty.channel.group.ChannelGroup` for example to broadact a message
to multiple channels.

|`networkInterface` |`null` |*Camel 2.12:* Consumer only. When using UDP
then this option can be used to specify a network interface by its name,
such as `eth0` to join a multicast group.

|`udpConnectionlessSending` |`false` |*Camel 2.15:* Producer only. Â This
option supports connection less udp sending which is a real fire and
forget. A connected udp send receive the PortUnreachableException if no
one is listen on the receiving port.

|`clientMode` |`false` |*Camel 2.15:* Consumer only. If the `clientMode`
is true, netty consumer will connect the address as a TCP client.

|`useChannelBuffer` |`false` |*Camel 2.16:* Producer only. If the
`useChannelBuffer` is true, netty producer will turn the message body
into channelBuffer before sending it out.
|=======================================================================

[[Netty-RegistrybasedOptions]]
Registry based Options
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Codec Handlers and SSL Keystores can be enlisted in the
link:registry.html[Registry], such as in the Spring XML file. +
The values that could be passed in, are the following:

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Name |Description
|`passphrase` |password setting to use in order to encrypt/decrypt
payloads sent using SSH

|`keyStoreFormat` |keystore format to be used for payload encryption.
Defaults to "JKS" if not set

|`securityProvider` |Security provider to be used for payload
encryption. Defaults to "SunX509" if not set.

|`keyStoreFile` |*deprecated:* Client side certificate keystore to be
used for encryption

|`trustStoreFile` |*deprecated:* Server side certificate keystore to be
used for encryption

|`keyStoreResource` |*Camel 2.11.1:* Client side certificate keystore to
be used for encryption. Is loaded by default from classpath, but you can
prefix with `"classpath:"`, `"file:"`, or `"http:"` to load the resource
from different systems.

|`trustStoreResource` |*Camel 2.11.1:* Server side certificate keystore
to be used for encryption. Is loaded by default from classpath, but you
can prefix with `"classpath:"`, `"file:"`, or `"http:"` to load the
resource from different systems.

|`sslHandler` |Reference to a class that could be used to return an SSL
Handler

|`encoder` |A custom `ChannelHandler` class that can be used to perform
special marshalling of outbound payloads. Must override
`org.jboss.netty.channel.ChannelDownStreamHandler`.

|`encorders` |A list of encoders to be used. You can use a String which
have values separated by comma, and have the values be looked up in the
link:registry.html[Registry]. Just remember to prefix the value with #
so Camel knows it should lookup.

|`decoder` |A custom `ChannelHandler` class that can be used to perform
special marshalling of inbound payloads. Must override
`org.jboss.netty.channel.ChannelUpStreamHandler`.

|`decoders` |A list of decoders to be used. You can use a String which
have values separated by comma, and have the values be looked up in the
link:registry.html[Registry]. Just remember to prefix the value with #
so Camel knows it should lookup.
|=======================================================================

*Important:* Read below about using non shareable encoders/decoders.

[[Netty-Usingnonshareableencodersordecoders]]
Using non shareable encoders or decoders
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

If your encoders or decoders is not shareable (eg they have the
@Shareable class annotation), then your encoder/decoder must implement
the `org.apache.camel.component.netty.ChannelHandlerFactory` interface,
and return a new instance in the `newChannelHandler` method. This is to
ensure the encoder/decoder can safely be used. If this is not the case,
then the Netty component will log a WARN when +
an endpoint is created.

The Netty component offers a
`org.apache.camel.component.netty.ChannelHandlerFactories` factory
class, that has a number of commonly used methods.

[[Netty-SendingMessagesto/fromaNettyendpoint]]
Sending Messages to/from a Netty endpoint
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

[[Netty-NettyProducer]]
Netty Producer
++++++++++++++

In Producer mode, the component provides the ability to send payloads to
a socket endpoint +
using either TCP or UDP protocols (with optional SSL support).

The producer mode supports both one-way and request-response based
operations.

[[Netty-NettyConsumer]]
Netty Consumer
++++++++++++++

In Consumer mode, the component provides the ability to:

* listen on a specified socket using either TCP or UDP protocols (with
optional SSL support),
* receive requests on the socket using text/xml, binary and serialized
object based payloads and
* send them along on a route as message exchanges.

The consumer mode supports both one-way and request-response based
operations.

Â 

[[Netty-Headers]]
Headers
^^^^^^^

The following headers are filled for the exchanges created by the Netty
consumer:

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Header key |Class |Description
|`NettyConstants.NETTY_CHANNEL_HANDLER_CONTEXT` /
`CamelNettyChannelHandlerContext`
|`org.jboss.netty.channel.ChannelHandlerContext`
|`ChannelHandlerContext `instance associated with the connection
received by netty.

|`NettyConstants.NETTY_MESSAGE_EVENT` / `CamelNettyMessageEvent`
|`org.jboss.netty.channel.MessageEvent` |`MessageEvent `instance
associated with the connection received by netty.

|`NettyConstants.NETTY_REMOTE_ADDRESS` / `CamelNettyRemoteAddress`
|`java.net.SocketAddress` |Remote address of the incoming socket
connection.

|`NettyConstants.NETTY_LOCAL_ADDRESS` / `CamelNettyLocalAddress`
|`java.net.SocketAddress` |Local address of the incoming socket
connection.
|=======================================================================

[[Netty-UsageSamples]]
Usage Samples
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

[[Netty-AUDPNettyendpointusingRequest-Replyandserializedobjectpayload]]
A UDP Netty endpoint using Request-Reply and serialized object payload
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

RouteBuilder builder = new RouteBuilder() \{ public void configure() \{
from("netty:udp://localhost:5155?sync=true") .process(new Processor() \{
public void process(Exchange exchange) throws Exception \{ Poetry poetry
= (Poetry) exchange.getIn().getBody(); poetry.setPoet("Dr. Sarojini
Naidu"); exchange.getOut().setBody(poetry); } } } };

[[Netty-ATCPbasedNettyconsumerendpointusingOne-waycommunication]]
A TCP based Netty consumer endpoint using One-way communication
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

RouteBuilder builder = new RouteBuilder() \{ public void configure() \{
from("netty:tcp://localhost:5150") .to("mock:result"); } };

[[Netty-AnSSL/TCPbasedNettyconsumerendpointusingRequest-Replycommunication]]
An SSL/TCP based Netty consumer endpoint using Request-Reply
communication
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

[[Netty-UsingtheJSSEConfigurationUtility]]
Using the JSSE Configuration Utility

As of Camel 2.9, the Netty component supports SSL/TLS configuration
through the link:camel-configuration-utilities.html[Camel JSSE
Configuration Utility].Â  This utility greatly decreases the amount of
component specific code you need to write and is configurable at the
endpoint and component levels.Â  The following examples demonstrate how
to use the utility with the Netty component.

[[Netty-Programmaticconfigurationofthecomponent]]
Programmatic configuration of the component

KeyStoreParameters ksp = new KeyStoreParameters();
ksp.setResource("/users/home/server/keystore.jks");
ksp.setPassword("keystorePassword"); KeyManagersParameters kmp = new
KeyManagersParameters(); kmp.setKeyStore(ksp);
kmp.setKeyPassword("keyPassword"); SSLContextParameters scp = new
SSLContextParameters(); scp.setKeyManagers(kmp); NettyComponent
nettyComponent = getContext().getComponent("netty",
NettyComponent.class); nettyComponent.setSslContextParameters(scp);

[[Netty-SpringDSLbasedconfigurationofendpoint]]
Spring DSL based configuration of endpoint

xml... <camel:sslContextParameters id="sslContextParameters">
<camel:keyManagers keyPassword="keyPassword"> <camel:keyStore
resource="/users/home/server/keystore.jks" password="keystorePassword"/>
</camel:keyManagers> </camel:sslContextParameters>... ... <to
uri="netty:tcp://localhost:5150?sync=true&ssl=true&sslContextParameters=#sslContextParameters"/>
...

[[Netty-UsingBasicSSL/TLSconfigurationontheJettyComponent]]
Using Basic SSL/TLS configuration on the Jetty Component

JndiRegistry registry = new JndiRegistry(createJndiContext());
registry.bind("password", "changeit"); registry.bind("ksf", new
File("src/test/resources/keystore.jks")); registry.bind("tsf", new
File("src/test/resources/keystore.jks"));
context.createRegistry(registry); context.addRoutes(new RouteBuilder()
\{ public void configure() \{ String netty_ssl_endpoint =
"netty:tcp://localhost:5150?sync=true&ssl=true&passphrase=#password" +
"&keyStoreFile=#ksf&trustStoreFile=#tsf"; String return_string = "When
You Go Home, Tell Them Of Us And Say," + "For Your Tomorrow, We Gave Our
Today."; from(netty_ssl_endpoint) .process(new Processor() \{ public
void process(Exchange exchange) throws Exception \{
exchange.getOut().setBody(return_string); } } } });

[[Netty-GettingaccesstoSSLSessionandtheclientcertificate]]
Getting access to SSLSession and the client certificate

*Available as of Camel 2.12*

You can get access to the `javax.net.ssl.SSLSession` if you eg need to
get details about the client certificate. When `ssl=true` then the
link:netty.html[Netty] component will store the `SSLSession` as a header
on the Camel link:message.html[Message] as shown below:

SSLSession session =
exchange.getIn().getHeader(NettyConstants.NETTY_SSL_SESSION,
SSLSession.class); // get the first certificate which is client
certificate javax.security.cert.X509Certificate cert =
session.getPeerCertificateChain()[0]; Principal principal =
cert.getSubjectDN();

Remember to set `needClientAuth=true` to authenticate the client,
otherwise `SSLSession` cannot access information about the client
certificate, and you may get an exception
`javax.net.ssl.SSLPeerUnverifiedException: peer not authenticated`. You
may also get this exception if the client certificate is expired or not
valid etc.

The option `sslClientCertHeaders` can be set to `true` which then
enriches the Camel link:message.html[Message] with headers having
details about the client certificate. For example the subject name is
readily available in the header `CamelNettySSLClientCertSubjectName`.

[[Netty-UsingMultipleCodecs]]
Using Multiple Codecs
+++++++++++++++++++++

In certain cases it may be necessary to add chains of encoders and
decoders to the netty pipeline. To add multpile codecs to a camel netty
endpoint the 'encoders' and 'decoders' uri parameters should be used.
Like the 'encoder' and 'decoder' parameters they are used to supply
references (to lists of ChannelUpstreamHandlers and
ChannelDownstreamHandlers) that should be added to the pipeline. Note
that if encoders is specified then the encoder param will be ignored,
similarly for decoders and the decoder param.

Read further above about using non shareable encoders/decoders.

The lists of codecs need to be added to the Camel's registry so they can
be resolved when the endpoint is
created.\{snippet:id=registry-beans|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-netty/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/netty/MultipleCodecsTest.java}Spring's
native collections support can be used to specify the codec lists in an
application
context\{snippet:id=registry-beans|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-netty/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/component/netty/multiple-codecs.xml}The
bean names can then be used in netty endpoint definitions either as a
comma separated list or contained in a List
e.g.\{snippet:id=routes|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-netty/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/netty/MultipleCodecsTest.java}or
via
spring.\{snippet:id=routes|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-netty/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/component/netty/multiple-codecs.xml}

[[Netty-ClosingChannelWhenComplete]]
Closing Channel When Complete
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When acting as a server you sometimes want to close the channel when,
for example, a client conversion is finished. +
You can do this by simply setting the endpoint option `disconnect=true`.

However you can also instruct Camel on a per message basis as follows. +
To instruct Camel to close the channel, you should add a header with the
key `CamelNettyCloseChannelWhenComplete` set to a boolean `true`
value. +
For instance, the example below will close the channel after it has
written the bye message back to the client:

from("netty:tcp://localhost:8080").process(new Processor() \{ public
void process(Exchange exchange) throws Exception \{ String body =
exchange.getIn().getBody(String.class); exchange.getOut().setBody("Bye "
+ body); // some condition which determines if we should close if
(close) \{
exchange.getOut().setHeader(NettyConstants.NETTY_CLOSE_CHANNEL_WHEN_COMPLETE,
true); } } });

[[Netty-Addingcustomchannelpipelinefactoriestogaincompletecontroloveracreatedpipeline]]
Adding custom channel pipeline factories to gain complete control over a
created pipeline
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.5*

Custom channel pipelines provide complete control to the user over the
handler/interceptor chain by inserting custom handler(s), encoder(s) &
decoders without having to specify them in the Netty Endpoint URL in a
very simple way.

In order to add a custom pipeline, a custom channel pipeline factory
must be created and registered with the context via the context registry
(JNDIRegistry,or the camel-spring ApplicationContextRegistry etc).

A custom pipeline factory must be constructed as follows

* A Producer linked channel pipeline factory must extend the abstract
class `ClientPipelineFactory`.
* A Consumer linked channel pipeline factory must extend the abstract
class `ServerPipelineFactory`.
* The classes should override the getPipeline() method in order to
insert custom handler(s), encoder(s) and decoder(s). Not overriding the
getPipeline() method creates a pipeline with no handlers, encoders or
decoders wired to the pipeline.

The example below shows how ServerChannel Pipeline factory may be
created

Using custom pipeline factorypublic class
SampleServerChannelPipelineFactory extends ServerPipelineFactory \{
private int maxLineSize = 1024; public ChannelPipeline getPipeline()
throws Exception \{ ChannelPipeline channelPipeline =
Channels.pipeline(); channelPipeline.addLast("encoder-SD", new
StringEncoder(CharsetUtil.UTF_8));
channelPipeline.addLast("decoder-DELIM", new
DelimiterBasedFrameDecoder(maxLineSize, true,
Delimiters.lineDelimiter())); channelPipeline.addLast("decoder-SD", new
StringDecoder(CharsetUtil.UTF_8)); // here we add the default Camel
ServerChannelHandler for the consumer, to allow Camel to route the
message etc. channelPipeline.addLast("handler", new
ServerChannelHandler(consumer)); return channelPipeline; } }

The custom channel pipeline factory can then be added to the registry
and instantiated/utilized on a camel route in the following way

Registry registry = camelContext.getRegistry(); serverPipelineFactory =
new TestServerChannelPipelineFactory(); registry.bind("spf",
serverPipelineFactory); context.addRoutes(new RouteBuilder() \{ public
void configure() \{ String netty_ssl_endpoint =
"netty:tcp://localhost:5150?serverPipelineFactory=#spf" String
return_string = "When You Go Home, Tell Them Of Us And Say," + "For Your
Tomorrow, We Gave Our Today."; from(netty_ssl_endpoint) .process(new
Processor() \{ public void process(Exchange exchange) throws Exception
\{ exchange.getOut().setBody(return_string); } } } });

[[Netty-ReusingNettybossandworkerthreadpools]]
Reusing Netty boss and worker thread pools
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.12*

Netty has two kind of thread pools: boss and worker. By default each
Netty consumer and producer has their private thread pools. If you want
to reuse these thread pools among multiple consumers or producers then
the thread pools must be created and enlisted in the
link:registry.html[Registry].

For example using Spring XML we can create a shared worker thread pool
using the `NettyWorkerPoolBuilder` with 2 worker threads as shown below:

xml <!-- use the worker pool builder to create to help create the shared
thread pool --> <bean id="poolBuilder"
class="org.apache.camel.component.netty.NettyWorkerPoolBuilder">
<property name="workerCount" value="2"/> </bean> <!-- the shared worker
thread pool --> <bean id="sharedPool"
class="org.jboss.netty.channel.socket.nio.WorkerPool"
factory-bean="poolBuilder" factory-method="build"
destroy-method="shutdown"> </bean>

For boss thread pool there is a
`org.apache.camel.component.netty.NettyServerBossPoolBuilder` builder
for Netty consumers, and a
`org.apache.camel.component.netty.NettyClientBossPoolBuilder` for the
Netty produces.

Then in the Camel routes we can refer to this worker pools by
configuring the `workerPool` option in the
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/pages/createpage.action?spaceKey=CAMEL&title=URI&linkCreation=true&fromPageId=14814487[URI]
as shown below:

xml <route> <from
uri="netty:tcp://localhost:5021?textline=true&amp;sync=true&amp;workerPool=#sharedPool&amp;orderedThreadPoolExecutor=false"/>
<to uri="log:result"/> ... </route>

And if we have another route we can refer to the shared worker pool:

xml <route> <from
uri="netty:tcp://localhost:5022?textline=true&amp;sync=true&amp;workerPool=#sharedPool&amp;orderedThreadPoolExecutor=false"/>
<to uri="log:result"/> ... </route>

... and so forth.

link:endpoint-see-also.html[Endpoint See Also]

* link:netty-http.html[Netty HTTP]
* link:mina.html[MINA]
