[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[News-News]]
News
~~~~


https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~gzurowski[image:news.userimage/gzurowski-89607-pp-wojtek-avatar.png[User
icon: gzurowski,title="gzurowski"]]
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/2018/01/26/Apache+Camel+2.20.2+Released[Apache
Camel 2.20.2 Released]

https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~gzurowski[Gregor Zurowski]
posted on Jan 26, 2018

The Camel community announces the immediate availability of the new
patch release Camel 2.20.2. This release contains 41 fixes applied in
the past few weeks by the community on the Camel 2.20.x maintenance
branch.

The artifacts are published and ready for you
to http://camel.apache.org/download.html[download] either from the
Apache mirrors or from the Central Maven repository. For more details
please take a look at
the https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?version=12342152&projectId=12311211[release
notes]. +
Many thanks to all who made this release possible.

On behalf of the Camel PMC, +
Gregor Zurowski

link:/confluence/pages/editblogpost.action?pageId=75963358[Edit]


https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~gzurowski[image:news.userimage/gzurowski-89607-pp-wojtek-avatar.png[User
icon: gzurowski,title="gzurowski"]]
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/2017/11/14/Apache+Camel+2.20.1+Released[Apache
Camel 2.20.1 Released]

https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~gzurowski[Gregor Zurowski]
posted on Nov 14, 2017

The Camel community announces the immediate availability of the new
patch release Camel 2.20.1. This release contains 65 fixes applied in
the past few weeks by the community on the Camel 2.20.x maintenance
branch.

The artifacts are published and ready for you to
http://camel.apache.org/download.html[download] either from the Apache
mirrors or from the Central Maven repository. For more details please
take a look at the
https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?version=12341590&projectId=12311211[release
notes]. +
Many thanks to all who made this release possible.

On behalf of the Camel PMC, +
Gregor Zurowski

link:/confluence/pages/editblogpost.action?pageId=74687082[Edit]


https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~gzurowski[image:news.userimage/gzurowski-89607-pp-wojtek-avatar.png[User
icon: gzurowski,title="gzurowski"]]
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/2017/11/05/Apache+Camel+2.19.4+Released[Apache
Camel 2.19.4 Released]

https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~gzurowski[Gregor Zurowski]
posted on Nov 05, 2017

The Camel community announces the immediate availability of the new
patch release Camel 2.19.4. This release contains 39 fixes applied in
the past few weeks by the community on the Camel 2.19.x maintenance
branch.

The artifacts are published and ready for you
to http://camel.apache.org/download.html[download] either from the
Apache mirrors or from the Central Maven repository. For more details
please take a look at
the https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?version=12341575&projectId=12311211[release
notes].

Many thanks to all who made this release possible.

On behalf of the Camel PMC, +
Gregor Zurowski

link:/confluence/pages/editblogpost.action?pageId=74686235[Edit]


https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~gzurowski[image:news.userimage/gzurowski-89607-pp-wojtek-avatar.png[User
icon: gzurowski,title="gzurowski"]]
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/2017/10/11/Apache+Camel+2.20.0+Released[Apache
Camel 2.20.0 Released]

https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~gzurowski[Gregor Zurowski]
posted on Oct 11, 2017

The Camel community announces the immediate availability of the new
minor release Camel 2.20.0. This release contains over 550 fixes and
improvements. An overview of the changes is
available link:camel-2200-release.html[here].

The artifacts are published and ready for you
to https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Download[download] either
from the Apache mirrors or from the Central Maven repository. For more
details please take a look at
the https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?version=12340219&styleName=&projectId=12311211[release
notes].

Many thanks to all who made this release possible.

On behalf of the Camel PMC, +
Gregor Zurowski

link:/confluence/pages/editblogpost.action?pageId=74683019[Edit]


https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~gzurowski[image:news.userimage/gzurowski-89607-pp-wojtek-avatar.png[User
icon: gzurowski,title="gzurowski"]]
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/2017/09/25/Apache+Camel+2.18.5+Released[Apache
Camel 2.18.5 Released]

https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~gzurowski[Gregor Zurowski]
posted on Sep 25, 2017

The Camel community announces the immediate availability of the new
patch release Camel 2.18.5. This is the last planned patch release for
the Camel 2.18.x branch that contains 51 fixes applied in the past few
weeks by the community.

The artifacts are published and ready for you
to http://camel.apache.org/download.html[download] either from the
Apache mirrors or from the Central Maven repository. For more details
please take a look at
the https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?version=12340599&projectId=12311211[release
notes].

Many thanks to all who made this release possible.

On behalf of the Camel PMC,

Gregor Zurowski

link:/confluence/pages/editblogpost.action?pageId=73640036[Edit]


https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~gzurowski[image:news.userimage/gzurowski-89607-pp-wojtek-avatar.png[User
icon: gzurowski,title="gzurowski"]]
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/2017/09/14/Apache+Camel+2.19.3+Released[Apache
Camel 2.19.3 Released]

https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~gzurowski[Gregor Zurowski]
posted on Sep 14, 2017

The Camel community announces the immediate availability of the new
patch release Camel 2.19.3. This release contains 40 fixes applied in
the past few weeks by the community on the Camel 2.19.x maintenance
branch.

The artifacts are published and ready for you
to http://camel.apache.org/download.html[download] either from the
Apache mirrors or from the Central Maven repository. For more details
please take a look at
the https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?version=12341135&projectId=12311211[release
notes].

Many thanks to all who made this release possible.

On behalf of the Camel PMC, +
Gregor Zurowski

link:/confluence/pages/editblogpost.action?pageId=73638388[Edit]


https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~gzurowski[image:news.userimage/gzurowski-89607-pp-wojtek-avatar.png[User
icon: gzurowski,title="gzurowski"]]
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/2017/08/01/Apache+Camel+2.19.2+Released[Apache
Camel 2.19.2 Released]

https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~gzurowski[Gregor Zurowski]
posted on Aug 01, 2017

The Camel community announces the immediate availability of the new
patch release Camel 2.19.2. This release contains 41 fixes applied in
the past few weeks by the community on the Camel 2.19.x maintenance
branch.

The artifacts are published and ready for you
to http://camel.apache.org/download.html[download] either from the
Apache mirrors or from the Central Maven repository. For more details
please take a look at
the https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?version=12340945&projectId=12311211[release
notes].

Many thanks to all who made this release possible.

On behalf of the Camel PMC, +
Gregor Zurowski

link:/confluence/pages/editblogpost.action?pageId=73631882[Edit]


https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~davsclaus[image:news.userimage/user-avatar[User
icon: davsclaus,title="davsclaus"]]
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/2017/07/11/Official+Apache+Camel+chat+room+on+Gitter[Official
Apache Camel chat room on Gitter]

https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~davsclaus[Claus Ibsen]
posted on Jul 11, 2017

The Camel PMC recently created an
https://gitter.im/apache/apache-camel[apache-camel chat room] on the
Gitter instant messaging platform.

Gitter is popular among developers and many open source projects have a
room there, so it's only natural that we also have a room there for
Apache Camel.

If you are unfamiliar with Gitter you can learn about it from
Wikipedia: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gitter

The link to the Apache Camel chat room
is: https://gitter.im/apache/apache-camel

On behalf of the Camel PMC, +
Claus Ibsen

link:/confluence/pages/editblogpost.action?pageId=71764738[Edit]


https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~davsclaus[image:news.userimage/user-avatar[User
icon: davsclaus,title="davsclaus"]]
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/2017/06/17/New+Camel+committers[New
Camel committers]

https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~davsclaus[Claus Ibsen]
posted on Jun 17, 2017

New Camel committers

A couple of week ago the Camel PMC voted in three new contributors to
become committers:

- Onder Sezgin +
- Quinn Stevenson +
- Tomohisa Igarashi

On behalf of the Camel PMC, welcome aboard Onder, Quinn, and Tomo and
keep up the great work! +
Claus Ibsen

link:/confluence/pages/editblogpost.action?pageId=71011583[Edit]


https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~gzurowski[image:news.userimage/gzurowski-89607-pp-wojtek-avatar.png[User
icon: gzurowski,title="gzurowski"]]
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/2017/06/15/Apache+Camel+2.19.1+Released[Apache
Camel 2.19.1 Released]

https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~gzurowski[Gregor Zurowski]
posted on Jun 15, 2017

The Camel community announces the immediate availability of the new
patch release Camel 2.19.1. This release contains 57 fixes applied in
the past few weeks by the community on the Camel 2.19.x maintenance
branch.

The artifacts are published and ready for you to
http://camel.apache.org/download.html[download] either from the Apache
mirrors or from the Central Maven repository. For more details please
take a look at the
https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?version=12340460&projectId=12311211[release
notes].

Many thanks to all who made this release possible.

On behalf of the Camel PMC, +
Gregor Zurowski

link:/confluence/pages/editblogpost.action?pageId=71011302[Edit]


https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~gzurowski[image:news.userimage/gzurowski-89607-pp-wojtek-avatar.png[User
icon: gzurowski,title="gzurowski"]]
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/2017/05/25/Apache+Camel+2.18.4+Released[Apache
Camel 2.18.4 Released]

https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~gzurowski[Gregor Zurowski]
posted on May 25, 2017

The Camel community announces the immediate availability of the new
patch release Camel 2.18.4. This release contains 44 fixes applied in
the past few weeks by the community on the Camel 2.18.x maintenance
branch.

The artifacts are published and ready for you
to http://camel.apache.org/download.html[download] either from the
Apache mirrors or from the Central Maven repository. For more details
please take a look at
the https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?version=12339774&projectId=12311211[release
notes].

Many thanks to all who made this release possible.

On behalf of the Camel PMC,

Gregor Zurowski

link:/confluence/pages/editblogpost.action?pageId=70256722[Edit]


https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~zregvart[image:news.userimage/user-avatar[User
icon: zregvart,title="zregvart"]]
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/2017/05/22/New+Apache+Camel+logo+vote+results+are+in[New
Apache Camel logo vote results are in]

https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~zregvart[Zoran Regvart]
posted on May 22, 2017

The Apache Camel community has made a
https://camel.apache.org/2017/02/28/new-apache-camel-logo-open-for-proposals.html[call
for a new logo] and subsequently
https://camel.apache.org/2017/05/03/new-apache-camel-logo-voting-is-now-open.html[voted
on the new logo design]. And the results are now in^*^!

There have been 245 votes cast, out of which only 1 will be discarded
(vote cast for 4 design proposals) which constitutes 0,4% of the total
votes.

Out of the 244 remaining valid votes:

1.  Design by James Lei submitted
athttps://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/attachment/12855173/apachecamel.pnghttps://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/CAMEL-10543
received *52 (21.31%)* votes
2.  Design by Bharadwaj Nakka submitted at
https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/attachment/12856742/new_log_camel.jpghttps://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/CAMEL-10543
received *14 (5.74%)* votes
3.  Design by Merkushev Kirill submitted at
https://github.com/apache/camel/pull/1369 received *59 (24.18%)* votes
4.  Design by Zoran Regvart (1) submitted at
https://github.com/apache/camel/pull/1486 received *37 (15.16%)* votes
5.  Design by Zoran Regvart (2) submitted
athttps://github.com/apache/camel/pull/1494 received *135 (55.33%)*
votes
6.  Design by Filip Majewski submitted at
https://github.com/apache/camel/pull/1551 received *72 (29.50%)* votes
7.  Design by David Klassen submitted at
https://github.com/apache/camel/pull/1556 received *121 (49.59%)* votes
8.  Design by Brad Parks (1) submitted at
https://github.com/apache/camel/pull/1573 received *57 (23.36%)* votes
9.  Design by Brad Parks (2) submitted
athttps://github.com/apache/camel/pull/1575 received *27 (11.07%)* votes

The Apache Camel community would like to *thank everyone for
participating* either by submitting their logo design proposal,
commenting and collaborating with the authors or casting the vote.

With this feedback from the community the Camel Project Management
Committee (PMC) will announce the new official Apache Camel Logo, stay
tuned for that!

On behalf of the Apache Camel community,

Zoran

~*Errm, well they were in a week ago, but I'm late to write this
announcement, posts to the mailing lists were more prompt~

link:/confluence/pages/editblogpost.action?pageId=70256213[Edit]


https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~gzurowski[image:news.userimage/gzurowski-89607-pp-wojtek-avatar.png[User
icon: gzurowski,title="gzurowski"]]
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/2017/05/18/Apache+Camel+2.17.7+Released[Apache
Camel 2.17.7 Released]

https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~gzurowski[Gregor Zurowski]
posted on May 18, 2017

The Camel community announces the immediate availability of the new
Camel 2.17.7 patch release. This release contains 15 fixes and is the
last planned release for the 2.17.x branch.

The artifacts are published and ready for you
to http://camel.apache.org/download.html[download] either from the
Apache mirrors or from the Central Maven repository. For more details
please take a look at
the https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?version=12339843&projectId=12311211[release
notes].

Many thanks to all who made this release possible.

On behalf of the Camel PMC, +
Gregor Zurowski

link:/confluence/pages/editblogpost.action?pageId=70255887[Edit]


https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~gzurowski[image:news.userimage/gzurowski-89607-pp-wojtek-avatar.png[User
icon: gzurowski,title="gzurowski"]]
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/2017/05/05/Apache+Camel+2.19.0+Released[Apache
Camel 2.19.0 Released]

https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~gzurowski[Gregor Zurowski]
posted on May 05, 2017

The Camel community announces the immediate availability of the new
minor release Camel 2.19.0. This release contains over 670 fixes and
improvements including the update to Spring Boot 1.5, the new Camel
connector component and link:camel-2190-release.html[many more].

The artifacts are published and ready for you
to https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Download[download] either
from the Apache mirrors or from the Central Maven repository. For more
details please take a look at
the https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?version=12337871&projectId=12311211[release
notes].

Many thanks to all who made this release possible.

On behalf of the Camel PMC, +
Gregor Zurowski

link:/confluence/pages/editblogpost.action?pageId=69409636[Edit]


https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~davsclaus[image:news.userimage/user-avatar[User
icon: davsclaus,title="davsclaus"]]
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/2017/05/03/New+Apache+Camel+Logo+-+voting+is+now+open[New
Apache Camel Logo - voting is now open]

https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~davsclaus[Claus Ibsen]
posted on May 03, 2017

The Camel community had a call for the design of a new logo[1] and we +
have received nine design proposals in chronological order: +
 +
1. Design by James Lei submitted at +
https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/attachment/12855173/apachecamel.png +
https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/CAMEL-10543 +
 +
2. Design by Bharadwaj Nakka submitted at +
https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/attachment/12856742/new_log_camel.jpg +
https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/CAMEL-10543 +
 +
3. Design by Merkushev Kirill submitted at +
https://github.com/apache/camel/pull/1369 +
 +
4. Design by Zoran Regvart (1) submitted at +
https://github.com/apache/camel/pull/1486 +
 +
5. Design by Zoran Regvart (2) submitted at +
https://github.com/apache/camel/pull/1494 +
 +
6. Design by Filip Majewski submitted at +
https://github.com/apache/camel/pull/1551 +
 +
7. Design by David Klassen submitted at +
https://github.com/apache/camel/pull/1556 +
 +
8. Design by Brad Parks (1) submitted at +
https://github.com/apache/camel/pull/1573 +
 +
9. Design by Brad Parks (2) submitted at +
https://github.com/apache/camel/pull/1575 +
 +
The design proposals are now up for community vote which will give +
the Camel Project Management Committee (PMC) direction as to what +
design the community prefers. After that the Camel PMC will pick one +
of the proposals as the new Camel logo. +
 +
The voting period is open from 1.5.2017 00:00 UTC and close two weeks +
later on 14.5.2017. 23:59 UTC, and you will be able to pick up to +
three designs. +
 +
Vote on your favorite 3 logos at the following URL: +
 +
https://goo.gl/forms/A3pIzPyWzU8rlMJ13 +
 +
We would like to thank everyone for participating either by submitting +
their logo design proposal, commenting and collaborating with the +
authors or casting the vote. +
 +
on behalf of the Camel community, +
 +
Zoran and Claus +
 +
[1] https://camel.apache.org/2017/02/28/new-apache-camel-logo-open-for-proposals.html

link:/confluence/pages/editblogpost.action?pageId=69408972[Edit]


https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~davsclaus[image:news.userimage/user-avatar[User
icon: davsclaus,title="davsclaus"]]
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/2017/03/19/Apache+Camel+first+commit+was+10+years+ago+on+March+19th[Apache
Camel first commit was 10 years ago on March 19th]

https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~davsclaus[Claus Ibsen]
posted on Mar 19, 2017

Today marks a very special day as it was exactly 10 years ago
the http://svn.apache.org/viewvc/activemq/camel/trunk/?pathrev=519901[first
commit] of Apache Camel was done by its creator James Strachan.

....
 
....

....
Added Mon Mar 19 10:54:57 2007 UTC (10 years ago) by jstrachan
....

....
Initial checkin of Camel routing library
....

The project was created as a sub-project to Apache ActiveMQ and back
then github did not exists, so its using good old subversion. +
 +
In summer 2007 the first release of Apache Camel was published, which
happened on July 2nd so lets wait until the summer to celebrate it's 10
years birthday. +

link:/confluence/pages/editblogpost.action?pageId=68719621[Edit]


https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~gzurowski[image:news.userimage/gzurowski-89607-pp-wojtek-avatar.png[User
icon: gzurowski,title="gzurowski"]]
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/2017/03/12/Apache+Camel+2.18.3+Released[Apache
Camel 2.18.3 Released]

https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~gzurowski[Gregor Zurowski]
posted on Mar 12, 2017

The Camel community announces the immediate availability of the new
patch release Camel 2.18.3. This release contains 38 fixes applied in
the past few weeks by the community on the Camel 2.18.x maintenance
branch.

The artifacts are published and ready for you
to https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Download[download] either
from the Apache mirrors or from the Central Maven repository. For more
details please take a look at
the https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?version=12339161&projectId=12311211[release
notes].

Many thanks to all who made this release possible.

On behalf of the Camel PMC,

Gregor Zurowski

link:/confluence/pages/editblogpost.action?pageId=68718760[Edit]


https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~gzurowski[image:news.userimage/gzurowski-89607-pp-wojtek-avatar.png[User
icon: gzurowski,title="gzurowski"]]
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/2017/03/09/Apache+Camel+2.17.6+Released[Apache
Camel 2.17.6 Released]

https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~gzurowski[Gregor Zurowski]
posted on Mar 09, 2017

The Camel community announces the immediate availability of the new
patch release Camel 2.17.6. This release contains 17 fixes applied in
the past few weeks by the community on the Camel 2.17.x maintenance
branch.

The artifacts are published and ready for you
to link:download.html[download] either from the Apache mirrors or from
the Central Maven repository. For more details please take a look at
the https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?version=12339170&projectId=12311211[release
notes].

Many thanks to all who made this release possible.

On behalf of the Camel PMC,

Gregor Zurowski

link:/confluence/pages/editblogpost.action?pageId=68718404[Edit]


https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~davsclaus[image:news.userimage/user-avatar[User
icon: davsclaus,title="davsclaus"]]
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/2017/02/28/New+Apache+Camel+Logo+-+Open+for+proposals[New
Apache Camel Logo - Open for proposals]

https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~davsclaus[Claus Ibsen]
posted on Feb 28, 2017

The Apache Camel logo is a bit out dated so we have discussed in the
Camel PMC and community to come up with a new one. +
We encourage anyone to participate by submitting a logo proposal and/or
share thoughts

The logo can be submitted by either:

* a PR on GitHub (preferred)
* file attachment to JIRA
ticket: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/CAMEL-10543

And each logo should be:

* images should be added to docs/img
* each PR should contains a single logo

We are looking for a new logo that has two parts

* graphical logo
* name: Apache Camel

So we can use the logo without the word Apache Camel, but also as a
combination of the two of them, eg as logo on the Camel front page. +
Also if the logo can be vector based it would be a benefit, so it
can scale up and down nicely.

You can find details here how to contribute to the project and how to
work on the source code. +
Such as how to do a github PR: http://camel.apache.org/contributing

*The period is open until Monday 27th March 2017*

After the period the submitted logos will be in a public vote, and the
outcome of that vote will influence the decision on which logo to use as
the official Apache Camel logo.

At this time of writing there are two proposals submitted at PRs:

https://github.com/apache/camel/pull/1369 +
https://github.com/apache/camel/pull/1494

More information and questions can be asked at the JIRA ticket: +
https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/CAMEL-10543

link:/confluence/pages/editblogpost.action?pageId=68716917[Edit]


https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~davsclaus[image:news.userimage/user-avatar[User
icon: davsclaus,title="davsclaus"]]
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/2017/02/18/Welcome+Zoran+Regvart+as+newest+Camel+committer[Welcome
Zoran Regvart as newest Camel committer]

https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/~davsclaus[Claus Ibsen]
posted on Feb 18, 2017

A weeks ago the Camel PMC voted another one of the very active and
talented contributors to become a committer.

Zoran Regvart was actively involved with Apache Camel for about 8 month
contributing code and helping other users, especially for the Camel
Salesforce component.

Likewise he helped upgrade Jetty to support Jetty 9.3 which is not
trivial work because Jetty keeps breaking their APIs and we have many
components that rely on Jetty so its often a pain/more work to
upgrade/maintain.

On behalf of the Camel PMC, welcome aboard Zoran and keep up the great
work! +
Claus Ibsen

link:/confluence/pages/editblogpost.action?pageId=68715329[Edit]
