[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[OnCompletion-OnCompletion]]
OnCompletion
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Camel has this concept of a Unit of Work that encompass the
link:exchange.html[Exchange]. The unit of work among others supports
synchronization callbacks that are invoked when the
link:exchange.html[Exchange] is complete. The callback API is defined in
*`org.apache.camel.spi.Synchronization`*. From *Camel 2.14*: we have an
extended synchronization
*`org.apache.camel.spi.SynchronizationRouteAware`* that have callbacks
for route events.

Getting the UnitOfWork

You can get hold of the *`org.apache.camel.spi.UnitOfWork`* from
*`org.apache.camel.Exchange`* with the method *`getUnitOfWork()`*.

In Camel 2.0 we have added DSL for these callbacks using the
new *`onCompletion`* DSL name.

*`onCompletion`* supports the following features:

* Scope: global and/or per route (route scope override all global
scope).
* Multiple global scope.
* Triggered either always, only if completed with success, or only if
failed.
* *`onWhen`* predicate to only trigger in certain situations.
* *Camel 2.14:* Mode: to define whether to run either before or after
route consumer writes response back to callee (if its *`InOut`*).
* *Camel 2.14:* Whether to run async or sync (use a thread pool or not).

From *Camel 2.14*: *`onCompletion`* has been modified to support running
the completion task in either synchronous or asynchronous mode (using a
thread pool) and also whether to run before or after the route consumer
is done. The reason is to give more flexibility. For example to specify
to run synchronous and before the route consumer is done, which allows
to modify the exchange before the consumer writes back any response to
the callee. You can use this to for example add customer headers, or
send to a log to log the response message, etc.

Changes from Camel 2.14 onwards

The *`onCompletion`* has changed defaults and behavior from Camel 2.14:
it now runs

* Runs synchronously without any thread pool

In Camel 2.13 the defaults were

* Runs asynchronous using a thread pool

Camel 2.13 or older - On completion runs in separate thread

The *`onCompletion`* runs in a separate thread in parallel with the
original route. It is therefore not intended to influence the outcome of
the original route. The idea for on completion is to spin off a new
thread to e.g., send logs to a central log database, send an email, send
alerts to a monitoring system, store a copy of the result message etc.

Therefore if you want to do some work that influence the original route,
then do *not* use *`onCompletion`* for that.

If you use the *`UnitOfWork`* API as mentioned in the top of this page,
then you can register a *`Synchronization`* callback on the
link:exchange.html[Exchange] which is executed in the original route.
That way allows you to do some custom code when the route is completed;
this is how custom components can enlist on completion services which
they need, e.g., the link:file2.html[File] component does that for work
that moves/deletes the original file etc.

[[OnCompletion-onCompletionWithRouteScope]]
`onCompletion` With Route Scope
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The *`onCompletion`* DSL allows you to add custom routes/processors when
the original link:exchange.html[Exchange] is complete. Camel spin off a
copy of the link:exchange.html[Exchange] and routes it in a separate
thread, kinda like a link:wire-tap.html[Wire Tap]. This allows the
original thread to continue while the *`onCompletion`* route is running
concurrently. We decided for this model as we did not want
the *`onCompletion`* route to interfere with the original route.

Only one onCompletion supported by route scope

You can only have one *`onCompletion`* clause per route. At context
scoped level it's possible to have many. And notice that when you use a
route scoped *`onCompletion`* then any context scoped are disabled for
that given route.

\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/OnCompletionTest.java}By
default the *`onCompletion`* will be triggered when the
link:exchange.html[Exchange] is complete and regardless if the
link:exchange.html[Exchange] completed with success or with an failure
(such as an Exception was thrown). You can limit the trigger to only
occur *`onCompleteOnly`* or by *`onFailureOnly`* as shown
below:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/OnCompletionOnFailureOnlyTest.java}You
can identify if the link:exchange.html[Exchange] is an *`onCompletion`*
link:exchange.html[Exchange] as Camel will add the property
*`Exchange.ON_COMPLETION`* with a boolean value of *`true`* when it spin
offs the *`onCompletion`* link:exchange.html[Exchange].

[[OnCompletion-UsingonCompletionfromSpringDSL]]
Using `onCompletion` from Spring DSL
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The *`onCompletion`* is defined like this with Spring
DSL:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-spring/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/spring/processor/SpringOnCompletionTest.xml}And
the *`onCompleteOnly`* and *`onFailureOnly`* is defined as a boolean
attribute on the *`<onCompletion>`* tag so the failure example would
be:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-spring/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/spring/processor/SpringOnCompletionOnFailureOnlyTest.xml}

[[OnCompletion-onCompletionWithGlobalScope]]
`onCompletion` With Global Scope
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This works just like the route scope except from the fact that they are
defined globally. An example
below:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/OnCompletionGlobalTest.java}

[[OnCompletion-UsingonCompletionfromSpringDSL.1]]
Using `onCompletion` from Spring DSL
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

This works just like the route scope except from the fact that they are
defined globally. An example
below:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-spring/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/spring/processor/SpringOnCompletionGlobalTest.xml}

Route scope override Global scope

If an *`onCompletion`* is defined in a route, it overrides *all* global
scoped and thus its only the route scoped that are used. The globally
scoped ones are never used.

[[OnCompletion-UsingonCompletionwithonWhenPredicate]]
Using `onCompletion` with `onWhen` Predicate
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

As other DSL in Camel you can attach a link:predicate.html[Predicate] to
the *`onCompletion`* so it only triggers in certain conditions, when the
predicate matches. For example to only trigger if the message body
contains the word *`Hello`* we can do
like:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/OnCompletionWhenTest.java}

[[OnCompletion-UsingonCompletionWithorWithoutaThreadpool]]
Using `onCompletion` With or Without a Threadpool
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.14*

*`onCompletion`* will from Camel 2.14: not use thread pool by default.
To use thread pool then either set a *`executorService`* or set
*`parallelProcessing`* to *`true`*.

For example in Java DSL:

javaonCompletion().parallelProcessing() .to("mock:before") .delay(1000)
.setBody(simple("OnComplete:$\{body}"));

And in XML DSL:

xml<onCompletion parallelProcessing="true"> <to uri="before"/>
<delay><constant>1000</constant></delay>
<setBody><simple>OnComplete:$\{body}</simple></setBody> </onCompletion>

You can also refer to a specific link:threading-model.html[thread pool]
to be used, using the *`executorServiceRef`* option:

xml<onCompletion executorServiceRef="myThreadPool"> <to uri="before"/>
<delay><constant>1000</constant></delay>
<setBody><simple>OnComplete:$\{body}</simple></setBody> </onCompletion>

 

[[OnCompletion-UsingonCompletiontoRunBeforeRouteConsumerSendsBackResponsetoCallee]]
Using `onCompletion` to Run Before Route Consumer Sends Back Response to
Callee
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.14*

*`onCompletion`* supports two modes

* *`AfterConsumer`* - Default mode which runs after the consumer is
done.
* *`BeforeConsumer`* - Runs before the consumer is done, and before the
consumer writes back response to the callee.

The *`AfterConsumer`* mode is the default mode which is the same
behavior as in older Camel releases.

The new *`BeforeConsumer`* mode is used to run *`onCompletion`* before
the consumer writes its response back to the callee (if in *`InOut`*
mode). This allows the *`onCompletion`* to modify the Exchange, such as
adding special headers, or to log the Exchange as a response logger etc.

For example to always add a "created by" header you
use *`modeBeforeConsumer()`* as shown below:

java.onCompletion().modeBeforeConsumer() .setHeader("createdBy",
constant("Someone")) .end()

 

And in XML DSL you set the mode attribute to *`BeforeConsumer`*:

xml<onCompletion mode="BeforeConsumer"> <setHeader
headerName="createdBy"> <constant>Someone</constant> </setHeader>
</onCompletion>

[[OnCompletion-SeeAlso]]
See Also
^^^^^^^^

* Unit of Work
