[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[PipesandFilters-PipesandFilters]]
Pipes and Filters
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Camel supports the
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/PipesAndFilters.html[Pipes
and Filters] from the link:enterprise-integration-patterns.html[EIP
patterns] in various ways.

image:http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/img/PipesAndFilters.gif[image]

With Camel you can split your processing across multiple independent
link:endpoint.html[Endpoint] instances which can then be chained
together.

[[PipesandFilters-UsingRoutingLogic]]
Using Routing Logic
+++++++++++++++++++

You can create pipelines of logic using multiple
link:endpoint.html[Endpoint] or link:message-translator.html[Message
Translator] instances as
follows\{snippet:id=example|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/PipelineTest.java}Though
pipeline is the default mode of operation when you specify multiple
outputs in Camel. The opposite to pipeline is multicast; which fires the
same message into each of its outputs. (See the example below).

In Spring XML you can use the *`<pipeline/>`* element

xml<route> <from uri="activemq:SomeQueue"/> <pipeline> <bean ref="foo"/>
<bean ref="bar"/> <to uri="activemq:OutputQueue"/> </pipeline> </route>

In the above the pipeline element is actually unnecessary, you could use
this:

xml<route> <from uri="activemq:SomeQueue"/> <bean ref="foo"/> <bean
ref="bar"/> <to uri="activemq:OutputQueue"/> </route>

which is a bit more explicit.

However if you wish to use *`<multicast/>`* to avoid a pipeline - to
send the same message into multiple pipelines - then the *`<pipeline/>`*
element comes into its own:

xml<route> <from uri="activemq:SomeQueue"/> <multicast> <pipeline> <bean
ref="something"/> <to uri="log:Something"/> </pipeline> <pipeline> <bean
ref="foo"/> <bean ref="bar"/> <to uri="activemq:OutputQueue"/>
</pipeline> </multicast> </route>

In the above example we are routing from a single
link:endpoint.html[Endpoint] to a list of different endpoints specified
using link:uris.html[URIs]. If you find the above a bit confusing, try
reading about the link:architecture.html[Architecture] or try the
link:examples.html[Examples]

link:using-this-pattern.html[Using This Pattern]
