[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[RecipientList-RecipientList]]
Recipient List
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/RecipientList.html[Recipient
List] from the link:enterprise-integration-patterns.html[EIP patterns]
allows you to route messages to a number of dynamically specified
recipients.

image:http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/img/RecipientList.gif[image]

The recipients will receive a copy of the *same*
link:exchange.html[Exchange], and Camel will execute them sequentially.

[[RecipientList-Options]]
Options
^^^^^^^

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Name |Default Value |Description
|`delimiter` |`,` |Delimiter used if the
link:expression.html[Expression] returned multiple endpoints (like
"direct:foo,direct:bar"). From *Camel 2.13* onwards this can be disabled
by setting delimiter to "false".

|`strategyRef` |  |An
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/processor/aggregate/AggregationStrategy.html[AggregationStrategy]
that will assemble the replies from recipients into a single outgoing
message from the link:recipient-list.html[Recipient List]. By default
Camel will use the last reply as the outgoing message. From *Camel 2.12*
onwards you can also use a POJO as the `AggregationStrategy`, see the
link:aggregator2.html[Aggregator] page for more details. If an exception
is thrown from the aggregate method in the AggregationStrategy, then by
default, that exception is not handled by the error handler. The error
handler can be enabled to react if enabling the shareUnitOfWork option.

|`strategyMethodName` |  |*Camel 2.12:* This option can be used to
explicitly declare the method name to use, when using POJOs as the
`AggregationStrategy`. See the link:aggregator2.html[Aggregator] page
for more details.

|`strategyMethodAllowNull` |`false` |*Camel 2.12:* If this option is
`false` then the aggregate method is not used if there was no data to
enrich. If this option is `true` then `null` is used as the
`oldExchange` (when no data to enrich), when using POJOs as the
`AggregationStrategy`. See the link:aggregator2.html[Aggregator] page
for more details.

|`parallelProcessing` |`false` |*Camel 2.2:* If enabled, messages are
sent to the recipients concurrently. Note that the calling thread will
still wait until all messages have been fully processed before it
continues; it is the sending and processing of replies from recipients
which happens in parallel. | 

|`parallelAggregate` |`false` |*Camel 2.14:* If enabled then the
`aggregate` method on `AggregationStrategy` can be called concurrently.
Notice that this would require the implementation of
`AggregationStrategy` to be implemented as thread-safe. By default this
is `false` meaning that Camel synchronizes the call to the `aggregate`
method. Though in some use-cases this can be used to archive higher
performance when the `AggregationStrategy` is implemented as
thread-safe.

|`executorServiceRef` |  |*Camel 2.2:* A custom
link:threading-model.html[Thread Pool] to use for parallel processing.
Note that enabling this option implies parallel processing, so you need
not enable that option as well.

|`stopOnException` |`false` |*Camel 2.2:* Whether to immediately stop
processing when an exception occurs. If disabled, Camel will send the
message to all recipients regardless of any individual failures. You can
process exceptions in an
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/processor/aggregate/AggregationStrategy.html[AggregationStrategy]
implementation, which supports full control of error handling.

|`ignoreInvalidEndpoints` |`false` |*Camel 2.3:* Whether to ignore an
endpoint URI that could not be resolved. If disabled, Camel will throw
an exception identifying the invalid endpoint URI.

|`streaming` |`false` |*Camel 2.5:* If enabled, Camel will process
replies out-of-order - that is, in the order received in reply from each
recipient. If disabled, Camel will process replies in the same order as
specified by the link:expression.html[Expression]. So this specifies
whether the response messages are aggregated as they come in, or in the
exact order as the recipient list was evaluated. Only relevant if you
enable parallelProcessing.

|`timeout` |  |*Camel 2.5:* Specifies a processing timeout in
milliseconds. If the link:recipient-list.html[Recipient List] hasn't
been able to send and process all replies within this timeframe, then
the timeout triggers and the link:recipient-list.html[Recipient List]
breaks out, with message flow continuing to the next element. Note that
if you provide a
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/processor/aggregate/TimeoutAwareAggregationStrategy.html[TimeoutAwareAggregationStrategy],
its `timeout` method is invoked before breaking out. *Beware:* If the
timeout is reached with running tasks still remaining, certain tasks
(for which it is difficult for Camel to shut down in a graceful manner)
may continue to run. So use this option with caution. We may be able to
improve this functionality in future Camel releases.

|`onPrepareRef` |  |*Camel 2.8:* A custom link:processor.html[Processor]
to prepare the copy of the link:exchange.html[Exchange] each recipient
will receive. This allows you to perform arbitrary transformations, such
as deep-cloning the message payload (or any other custom logic).

|`shareUnitOfWork` |`false` |*Camel 2.8:* Whether the unit of work
should be shared. See link:splitter.html[the same option on Splitter]
for more details.

|`cacheSize` |`1000` |*Camel 2.13.1/2.12.4:* Allows to configure the
cache size for the `ProducerCache` which caches producers for reuse in
the recipient list. Will by default use the default cache size which is
1000. Setting the value to -1 allows to turn off the cache completely.
|=======================================================================

[[RecipientList-StaticRecipientList]]
Static Recipient List
+++++++++++++++++++++

The following example shows how to route a request from an input
*queue:a* endpoint to a static list of destinations

*Using Annotations* +
You can use the link:recipientlist-annotation.html[RecipientList
Annotation] on a POJO to create a Dynamic Recipient List. For more
details see the link:bean-integration.html[Bean Integration].

*Using the link:fluent-builders.html[Fluent
Builders]*\{snippet:id=multicast|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/builder/RouteBuilderTest.java}*Using
the link:spring-xml-extensions.html[Spring XML
Extensions]*\{snippet:id=example|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-spring/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/spring/xml/buildStaticRecipientList.xml}

[[RecipientList-DynamicRecipientList]]
Dynamic Recipient List
++++++++++++++++++++++

Usually one of the main reasons for using the
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/RecipientList.html[Recipient
List] pattern is that the list of recipients is dynamic and calculated
at runtime. The following example demonstrates how to create a dynamic
recipient list using an link:expression.html[Expression] (which in this
case extracts a named header value dynamically) to calculate the list of
endpoints which are either of type
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/Endpoint.html[Endpoint]
or are converted to a String and then resolved using the endpoint
link:uris.html[URIs].

*Using the link:fluent-builders.html[Fluent
Builders]*\{snippet:id=e9|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/builder/RouteBuilderTest.java}The
above assumes that the header contains a list of endpoint URIs. The
following takes a single string header and tokenizes
it\{snippet:id=example|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/RecipientListTest.java}

[[RecipientList-Iteratablevalue]]
Iteratable value

The dynamic list of recipients that are defined in the header must be
iterable such as:

* `java.util.Collection`
* `java.util.Iterator`
* arrays
* `org.w3c.dom.NodeList`
* a single String with values separated by comma
* any other type will be regarded as a single value

*Using the link:spring-xml-extensions.html[Spring XML
Extensions]*\{snippet:id=example|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-spring/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/spring/xml/buildDynamicRecipientList.xml}For
further examples of this pattern in action you could take a look at one
of the
http://svn.apache.org/viewvc/camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/RecipientListTest.java?view=markup[junit
test cases].

[[RecipientList-UsingdelimiterinSpringXML]]
Using delimiter in Spring XML

In Spring DSL you can set the `delimiter` attribute for setting a
delimiter to be used if the header value is a single String with
multiple separated endpoints. By default Camel uses comma as delimiter,
but this option lets you specify a custom delimiter to use
instead.\{snippet:id=e1|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-spring/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/spring/processor/recipientListWithStringDelimitedHeader.xml}So
if *myHeader* contains a String with the value
`"activemq:queue:foo, activemq:topic:hello , log:bar"` then Camel will
split the String using the delimiter given in the XML that was comma,
resulting into 3 endpoints to send to. You can use spaces between the
endpoints as Camel will trim the value when it lookup the endpoint to
send to.

Note: In Java DSL you use the `tokenizer` to achieve the same. The route
above in Java DSL:

from("direct:a").recipientList(header("myHeader").tokenize(","));

In *Camel 2.1* its a bit easier as you can pass in the delimiter as 2nd
parameter:

from("direct:a").recipientList(header("myHeader"), "#");

[[RecipientList-Sendingtomultiplerecipientsinparallel]]
Sending to multiple recipients in parallel
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.2*

The link:recipient-list.html[Recipient List] now supports
`parallelProcessing` that for example link:splitter.html[Splitter] also
supports. You can use it to use a thread pool to have concurrent tasks
sending the link:exchange.html[Exchange] to multiple recipients
concurrently.

from("direct:a").recipientList(header("myHeader")).parallelProcessing();

And in Spring XML it is an attribute on the recipient list tag.

<route> <from uri="direct:a"/> <recipientList parallelProcessing="true">
<header>myHeader</header> </recipientList> </route>

[[RecipientList-Stopcontinuingincaseonerecipientfailed]]
Stop continuing in case one recipient failed
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.2*

The link:recipient-list.html[Recipient List] now supports
`stopOnException` that for example link:splitter.html[Splitter] also
supports. You can use it to stop sending to any further recipients in
case any recipient failed.

from("direct:a").recipientList(header("myHeader")).stopOnException();

And in Spring XML its an attribute on the recipient list tag.

<route> <from uri="direct:a"/> <recipientList stopOnException="true">
<header>myHeader</header> </recipientList> </route>

*Note:* You can combine `parallelProcessing` and `stopOnException` and
have them both `true`.

[[RecipientList-Ignoreinvalidendpoints]]
Ignore invalid endpoints
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.3*

The link:recipient-list.html[Recipient List] now supports
`ignoreInvalidEndpoints` (like the link:routing-slip.html[Routing
Slip]). You can use it to skip endpoints which are invalid.

from("direct:a").recipientList(header("myHeader")).ignoreInvalidEndpoints();

And in Spring XML it is an attribute on the recipient list tag.

<route> <from uri="direct:a"/> <recipientList
ignoreInvalidEndpoints="true"> <header>myHeader</header>
</recipientList> </route>

Then let us say the `myHeader` contains the following two endpoints
`direct:foo,xxx:bar`. The first endpoint is valid and works. However the
second one is invalid and will just be ignored. Camel logs at INFO level
about it, so you can see why the endpoint was invalid.

[[RecipientList-UsingcustomAggregationStrategy]]
Using custom `AggregationStrategy`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.2*

You can now use your own `AggregationStrategy` with the
link:recipient-list.html[Recipient List]. However this is rarely needed.
What it is good for is that in case you are using
link:request-reply.html[Request Reply] messaging then the replies from
the recipients can be aggregated. By default Camel uses
`UseLatestAggregationStrategy` which just keeps that last received
reply. If you must remember all the bodies that all the recipients sent
back, then you can use your own custom aggregator that keeps those. It
is the same principle as with the link:aggregator.html[Aggregator] EIP
so check it out for details.

from("direct:a")
.recipientList(header("myHeader")).aggregationStrategy(new
MyOwnAggregationStrategy()) .to("direct:b");

And in Spring XML it is again an attribute on the recipient list tag.

<route> <from uri="direct:a"/> <recipientList strategyRef="myStrategy">
<header>myHeader</header> </recipientList> <to uri="direct:b"/> </route>
<bean id="myStrategy" class="com.mycompany.MyOwnAggregationStrategy"/>

[[RecipientList-KnowingwhichendpointwhenusingcustomAggregationStrategy]]
Knowing which endpoint when using custom `AggregationStrategy`
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*Available as of Camel 2.12*

When using a custom `AggregationStrategy` then the `aggregate` method is
always invoked in sequential order (also if parallel processing is
enabled) of the endpoints the link:recipient-list.html[Recipient List]
is using. However from Camel 2.12 onwards this is easier to know as the
`newExchange` link:exchange.html[Exchange] now has a property stored
(key is `Exchange.RECIPIENT_LIST_ENDPOINT` with the uri of the
link:endpoint.html[Endpoint]. So you know which endpoint you are
aggregating from. The code block shows how to access this property in
your link:aggregator2.html[Aggregator]. 

@Override public Exchange aggregate(Exchange oldExchange, Exchange
newExchange) \{ String uri =
newExchange.getProperty(Exchange.RECIPIENT_LIST_ENDPOINT, String.class);
... }

[[RecipientList-Usingcustomthreadpool]]
Using custom thread pool
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.2*

A thread pool is only used for `parallelProcessing`. You supply your own
custom thread pool via the `ExecutorServiceStrategy` (see Camel's
link:threading-model.html[Threading Model]), the same way you would do
it for the `aggregationStrategy`. By default Camel uses a thread pool
with 10 threads (subject to change in future versions).

[[RecipientList-Usingmethodcallasrecipientlist]]
Using method call as recipient list
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can use a link:bean.html[Bean] to provide the recipients, for
example:

from("activemq:queue:test").recipientList().method(MessageRouter.class,
"routeTo");

And then `MessageRouter`:

public class MessageRouter \{ public String routeTo() \{ String
queueName = "activemq:queue:test2"; return queueName; } }

When you use a link:bean.html[Bean] then do *not* use the
`@RecipientList` annotation as this will in fact add yet another
recipient list, so you end up having two. Do *not* do the following.

public class MessageRouter \{ @RecipientList public String routeTo() \{
String queueName = "activemq:queue:test2"; return queueName; } }

You should only use the snippet above (using `@RecipientList`) if you
just route to a link:bean.html[Bean] which you then want to act as a
recipient list. +
So the original route can be changed to:

from("activemq:queue:test").bean(MessageRouter.class, "routeTo");

Which then would invoke the routeTo method and detect that it is
annotated with `@RecipientList` and then act accordingly as if it was a
recipient list EIP.

[[RecipientList-Usingtimeout]]
Using timeout
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.5*

If you use `parallelProcessing` then you can configure a total `timeout`
value in millis. Camel will then process the messages in parallel until
the timeout is hit. This allows you to continue processing if one
message consumer is slow. For example you can set a timeout value of 20
sec.

Tasks may keep running

If the timeout is reached with running tasks still remaining, certain
tasks for which it is difficult for Camel to shut down in a graceful
manner may continue to run. So use this option with a bit of care. We
may be able to improve this functionality in future Camel releases.

For example in the unit test below you can see that we multicast the
message to 3 destinations. We have a timeout of 2 seconds, which means
only the last two messages can be completed within the timeframe. This
means we will only aggregate the last two which yields a result
aggregation which outputs
`"BC"`.\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/MulticastParallelTimeoutTest.java}

Timeout in other EIPs

This `timeout` feature is also supported by link:splitter.html[Splitter]
and both `multicast` and `recipientList`.

By default if a timeout occurs the `AggregationStrategy` is not invoked.
However you can implement a special version

javaTimeoutAwareAggregationStrategyTimeoutAwareAggregationStrategypublic
interface TimeoutAwareAggregationStrategy extends AggregationStrategy \{
/** * A timeout occurred * * @param oldExchange the oldest exchange (is
<tt>null</tt> on first aggregation as we only have the new exchange) *
@param index the index * @param total the total * @param timeout the
timeout value in millis */ void timeout(Exchange oldExchange, int index,
int total, long timeout);

This allows you to deal with the timeout in the `AggregationStrategy` if
you really need to.

Timeout is total

The timeout is total, which means that after X time, Camel will
aggregate the messages which have completed within the timeframe. The
remainders will be cancelled. Camel will also only invoke the `timeout`
method in the `TimeoutAwareAggregationStrategy` once, for the first
index which caused the timeout.

[[RecipientList-UsingonPreparetoexecutecustomlogicwhenpreparingmessages]]
Using onPrepare to execute custom logic when preparing messages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.8*

See details at link:multicast.html[Multicast]

[[RecipientList-UsingExchangePatterninrecipients]]
Using ExchangePattern in recipients
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.15*

The recipient list will by default use the
current link:exchange-pattern.html[Exchange Pattern]. Though one can
imagine use-cases where one wants to send a message to a recipient using
a different exchange pattern. For example you may have a route that
initiates as an InOnly route, but want to use InOut exchange pattern
with a recipient list. To do this in earlier Camel releases, you would
need to change the exchange pattern before the recipient list, or use
onPrepare option to alter the pattern. From Camel 2.15 onwards, you can
configure the exchange pattern directly in the recipient endpoints.

For example in the route below we pick up new files (which will be
started as InOnly) and then route to a recipient list. As we want to use
InOut with the ActiveMQ (JMS) endpoint we can now specify this using the
exchangePattern=InOut option. Then the response from the JMS
request/reply will then be continued routed, and thus the response is
what will be stored in as a file in the outbox directory.

from("file:inbox") // the exchange pattern is InOnly initially when
using a file route
.recipientList().constant("activemq:queue:inbox?exchangePattern=InOut")
.to("file:outbox");

The recipient list will not alter the original exchange pattern. So in
the example above the exchange pattern will still be InOnly when the
message is routed to the file:outbox endpoint.

If you want to alter the exchange pattern permanently then use the
.setExchangePattern option. See more details at
link:request-reply.html[Request Reply] and link:event-message.html[Event
Message].

 

 

link:using-this-pattern.html[Using This Pattern]
