[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[Restlet-RestletComponent]]
Restlet Component
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The *Restlet* component provides http://www.restlet.org[Restlet] based
link:endpoint.html[endpoints] for consuming and producing RESTful
resources.

Maven users will need to add the following dependency to their `pom.xml`
for this component:

xml<dependency> <groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId>
<artifactId>camel-restlet</artifactId> <version>x.x.x</version> <!-- use
the same version as your Camel core version --> </dependency>

[[Restlet-URIformat]]
URI format
^^^^^^^^^^

javarestlet:restletUrl[?options]

Format of restletUrl:

javaprotocol://hostname[:port][/resourcePattern]

Restlet promotes decoupling of protocol and application concerns. The
reference implementation of
http://www.noelios.com/products/restlet-engine[Restlet Engine] supports
a number of protocols. However, we have tested the HTTP protocol only.
The default port is port 80. We do not automatically switch default port
based on the protocol yet.

You can append query options to the URI in the following format,
`?option=value&option=value&...`

 

It seems Restlet is case sensitive in understanding headers. For example
to use content-type, use Content-Type, and for location use Location and
so on.

We have received a report about drop in performance in camel-restlet in
Camel 2.14.0 and 2.14.1. We have reported this to the Restlet team in
https://github.com/restlet/restlet-framework-java/issues/996[issue 996].
To remedy the issue then from Camel 2.14.2 onwards you can set
synchronous=true as option on the endpoint uris, Or set it on the
RestletComponent as a global option so all endpoints inherit this
option.

 

[[Restlet-Options]]
Options
^^^^^^^

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Name |Default Value |Description
|`headerFilterStrategy=#`__refName__ |An instance of
`RestletHeaderFilterStrategy` |Use the `#` notation
(`headerFilterStrategy=#`__refName__) to reference a header filter
strategy in the Camel Registry. The strategy will be plugged into the
restlet binding if it is `HeaderFilterStrategyAware`.

|`restletBinding=#`__refName__ |An instance of `DefaultRestletBinding`
|The bean ID of a `RestletBinding` object in the Camel Registry.

|`restletMethod` |`GET` |On a producer endpoint, specifies the request
method to use. On a consumer endpoint, specifies that the endpoint
consumes only `restletMethod` requests. The string value is converted to
http://www.restlet.org/documentation/1.1/api/org/restlet/data/Method.html[org.restlet.data.Method]
by the `Method.valueOf(String)` method.

|`restletMethods` |_None_ |*Consumer only* Specify one or more methods
separated by commas (e.g. `restletMethods=post,put`) to be serviced by a
restlet consumer endpoint. If both `restletMethod` and `restletMethods`
options are specified, the `restletMethod` setting is ignored.

|`restletRealm=#`__refName__ |`null` |The bean ID of the Realm Map in
the Camel Registry.

|`restletUriPatterns=#`__refName__ |_None_ |*Consumer only* Specify one
ore more URI templates to be serviced by a restlet consumer endpoint,
using the `#` notation to reference a `List<String>` in the Camel
Registry. If a URI pattern has been defined in the endpoint URI, both
the URI pattern defined in the endpoint and the `restletUriPatterns`
option will be honored.

|`throwExceptionOnFailure` (*2.6 or later*) |`true` |*Producer only *
Throws exception on a producer failure.

|`connectionTimeout` |300000 |*Since Camel 2.12.3* *Producer only* The
Client will give up connection if the connection is timeout, 0 for
unlimited wait.

|`socketTimeout` |300000 |*Since Camel 2.12.3* *Producer only* The
Client socket receive timeout, 0 for unlimited wait.

|`disableStreamCache` |`false` |**Camel 2.14:** Determines whether or
not the raw input stream from Jetty is cached or not (Camel will read
the stream into a in memory/overflow to
file, http://camel.apache.org/stream-caching.html[Stream caching])
cache. By default Camel will cache the Jetty input stream to support
reading it multiple times to ensure it Camel can retrieve all data from
the stream. However you can set this option to `true` when you for
example need to access the raw stream, such as streaming it directly to
a file or other persistent store. DefaultRestletBinding will copy the
request input stream into a stream cache and put it into message body if
this option is `false` to support reading the stream multiple times.

|`streamRepresentation` |`false` |*Camel 2.16.4/2.17.2:* *Producer only*
Whether to support stream representation as response from calling a REST
service using the restlet producer. If the response is streaming then
this option can be enabled to use an http://java.io[java.io].InputStream
as the message body on the Camel Message body. If using this option you
may want to enable the autoCloseStream option as well to ensure the
input stream is closed when the Camel Exchange is done being routed.
However if you need to read the stream outside a Camel route, you may
need to not auto close the stream.

|`autoCloseStream` |`false` |**Camel 2.16.4/2.17.2:** *Producer only*
Whether to auto close the stream representation as response from calling
a REST service using the restlet producer. If the response is streaming
and the option streamRepresentation is enabled then you may want to auto
close the InputStream from the streaming response to ensure the input
stream is closed when the Camel Exchange is done being routed. However
if you need to read the stream outside a Camel route, you may need to
not auto close the stream.

|`cookieHandler` |`null` |*Camel 2.19: Producer only:* Configure a
cookie handler to maintain a HTTP session
|=======================================================================

[[Restlet-ComponentOptions]]
Component Options
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Restlet component can be configured with the following options.
Notice these are *component* options and cannot be configured on the
endpoint, see further below for an example.

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Name |Default Value |Description
|`controllerDaemon` |`true` |*Camel 2.10:* Indicates if the controller
thread should be a daemon (not blocking JVM exit).

|`controllerSleepTimeMs` |`100` |*Camel 2.10:* Time for the controller
thread to sleep between each control.

|`inboundBufferSize` |`8192` |*Camel 2.10:* The size of the buffer when
reading messages.

|`minThreads` |`1` |*Camel 2.10:* Minimum threads waiting to service
requests.

|`maxThreads` |`10` |*Camel 2.10:* Maximum threads that will service
requests.

|`lowThreads` |8 |*Camel 2.13:* Number of worker threads determining
when the connector is considered overloaded.

|`maxQueued` |0 |*Camel 2.13:* Maximum number of calls that can be
queued if there aren't any worker thread available to service them. If
the value is '0', then no queue is used and calls are rejected if no
worker thread is immediately available. If the value is '-1', then an
unbounded queue is used and calls are never rejected.

|`maxConnectionsPerHost` |`-1` |*Camel 2.10:* Maximum number of
concurrent connections per host (IP address).

|`maxTotalConnections` |`-1` |*Camel 2.10:* Maximum number of concurrent
connections in total.

|`outboundBufferSize` |`8192` |*Camel 2.10:* The size of the buffer when
writing messages.

|`persistingConnections` |`true` |*Camel 2.10:* Indicates if connections
should be kept alive after a call.

|`pipeliningConnections` |`false` |*Camel 2.10:* Indicates if pipelining
connections are supported.

|`threadMaxIdleTimeMs` |`60000` |*Camel 2.10:* Time for an idle thread
to wait for an operation before being collected.

|`useForwardedForHeader` |`false` |*Camel 2.10:* Lookup the
"X-Forwarded-For" header supported by popular proxies and caches and
uses it to populate the Request.getClientAddresses() method result. This
information is only safe for intermediary components within your local
network. Other addresses could easily be changed by setting a fake
header and should not be trusted for serious security checks.

|`reuseAddress` |`true` |*Camel 2.10.5/2.11.1:* Enable/disable the
SO_REUSEADDR socket option. See java.io.ServerSocket#reuseAddress
property for additional details.

|`disableStreamCache` |`false` |**Camel 2.14:** Determines whether or
not the raw input stream from Jetty is cached or not (Camel will read
the stream into a in memory/overflow to
file, http://camel.apache.org/stream-caching.html[Stream caching])
cache. By default Camel will cache the Jetty input stream to support
reading it multiple times to ensure it Camel can retrieve all data from
the stream. However you can set this option to `true` when you for
example need to access the raw stream, such as streaming it directly to
a file or other persistent store. DefaultRestletBinding will copy the
request input stream into a stream cache and put it into message body if
this option is `false` to support reading the stream multiple times.

|enabledConverters |null |**Camel 2.18:** By default, Restlet engine
loads all the extension it finds at run-time and this option filter out
all the converters except those explicit listed using full qualified
class name or simple class name. i.e. by setting
enabledConverters=JacksonConverter, GsonConverter the RestletComponent
will remove all the converters loaded by the Restlet engine except
Jackson and Gson. Note that you still need to add the extensions as
dependency.
|=======================================================================

[[Restlet-MessageHeaders]]
Message Headers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Name |Type |Description
|`Content-Type` |`String` |Specifies the content type, which can be set
on the OUT message by the application/processor. The value is the
`content-type` of the response message. If this header is not set, the
content type is based on the object type of the OUT message body. In
Camel 2.3 onward, if the Content-Type header is specified in the Camel
IN message, the value of the header determine the content type for the
Restlet request message.   Otherwise, it is defaulted to
"application/x-www-form-urlencoded'. Prior to release 2.3, it is not
possible to change the request content type default.

|`CamelAcceptContentType` |`String` |*Since Camel 2.9.3, 2.10.0:* The
HTTP Accept request header.

|`CamelHttpMethod` |`String` |The HTTP request method. This is set in
the IN message header.

|`CamelHttpQuery` |`String` |The query string of the request URI. It is
set on the IN message by `DefaultRestletBinding` when the restlet
component receives a request.

|`CamelHttpResponseCode` |`String` or `Integer` |The response code can
be set on the OUT message by the application/processor. The value is the
response code of the response message. If this header is not set, the
response code is set by the restlet runtime engine.

|`CamelHttpUri` |`String` |The HTTP request URI. This is set in the IN
message header.

|`CamelRestletLogin` |`String` |Login name for basic authentication. It
is set on the IN message by the application and gets filtered before the
restlet request header by Camel.

|`CamelRestletPassword` |`String` |Password name for basic
authentication. It is set on the IN message by the application and gets
filtered before the restlet request header by Camel.

|`CamelRestletRequest` |`Request` |*Camel 2.8:* The
`org.restlet.Request` object which holds all request details.

|`CamelRestletResponse` |`Response` |*Camel 2.8:* The
`org.restlet.Response` object. You can use this to create responses
using the API from Restlet. See examples below.

|`org.restlet.*` |  |Attributes of a Restlet message that get propagated
to Camel IN headers.

|`cache-control` |`String` or `List<CacheDirective>` |*Camel 2.11:* User
can set the cache-control with the String value or the List of
CacheDirective of Restlet from the camel message header.
|=======================================================================

[[Restlet-MessageBody]]
Message Body
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Camel will store the restlet response from the external server on the
OUT body. All headers from the IN message will be copied to the OUT
message, so that headers are preserved during routing.

[[Restlet-Samples]]
Samples
^^^^^^^

[[Restlet-RestletEndpointwithAuthentication]]
Restlet Endpoint with Authentication
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The following route starts a `restlet` consumer endpoint that listens
for `POST` requests on http://localhost:8080. The processor creates a
response that echoes the request body and the value of the `id`
header.\{snippet:id=consumer_route|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-restlet/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/restlet/route/TestRouteBuilder.java}The
`restletRealm` setting in the URI query is used to look up a Realm Map
in the registry. If this option is specified, the restlet consumer uses
the information to authenticate user logins. Only _authenticated_
requests can access the resources. In this sample, we create a Spring
application context that serves as a registry. The bean ID of the Realm
Map should match the
_restletRealmRef_.\{snippet:id=realm|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-restlet/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/component/restlet/camel-context.xml}The
following sample starts a `direct` endpoint that sends requests to the
server on http://localhost:8080 (that is, our restlet consumer
endpoint).\{snippet:id=producer_route|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-restlet/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/restlet/route/TestRouteBuilder.java}That
is all we need. We are ready to send a request and try out the restlet
component:\{snippet:id=auth_request|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-restlet/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/restlet/RestletRouteBuilderAuthTest.java}The
sample client sends a request to the `direct:start-auth` endpoint with
the following headers:

* `CamelRestletLogin` (used internally by Camel)
* `CamelRestletPassword` (used internally by Camel)
* `id` (application header)

Note

`org.apache.camel.restlet.auth.login` and
`org.apache.camel.restlet.auth.password` will not be propagated as
Restlet header.

The sample client gets a response like the following:

textreceived [<order foo='1'/>] as an order id = 89531

[[Restlet-SinglerestletendpointtoservicemultiplemethodsandURItemplates]]
Single restlet endpoint to service multiple methods and URI templates
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

It is possible to create a single route to service multiple HTTP methods
using the `restletMethods` option. This snippet also shows how to
retrieve the request method from the
header:\{snippet:id=routeDefinition|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-restlet/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/restlet/RestletMultiMethodsEndpointTest.java}In
addition to servicing multiple methods, the next snippet shows how to
create an endpoint that supports multiple URI templates using the
`restletUriPatterns` option. The request URI is available in the header
of the IN message as well. If a URI pattern has been defined in the
endpoint URI (which is not the case in this sample), both the URI
pattern defined in the endpoint and the `restletUriPatterns` option will
be
honored.\{snippet:id=routeDefinition|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-restlet/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/restlet/RestletMultiUriTemplatesEndpointTest.java}The
`restletUriPatterns=#uriTemplates` option references the `List<String>`
bean defined in the Spring XML configuration.

xml<util:list id="uriTemplates"> <value>/users/\{username}</value>
<value>/atom/collection/\{id}/component/\{cid}</value> </util:list>

[[Restlet-UsingRestletAPItopopulateresponse]]
Using Restlet API to populate response
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*Available as of Camel 2.8*

You may want to use the `org.restlet.Response` API to populate the
response. This gives you full access to the Restlet API and fine grained
control of the response. See the route snippet below where we generate
the response from an inlined Camel
link:processor.html[Processor]:\{snippet:id=e1|title=Generating response
using Restlet Response
API|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-restlet/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/restlet/RestletRequestAndResponseAPITest.java}

[[Restlet-Configuringmaxthreadsoncomponent]]
Configuring max threads on component
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

To configure the max threads options you must do this on the component,
such as:

xml<bean id="restlet"
class="org.apache.camel.component.restlet.RestletComponent"> <property
name="maxThreads" value="100"/> </bean>

[[Restlet-UsingtheRestletservletwithinawebapp]]
Using the Restlet servlet within a webapp
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*Available as of Camel 2.8* +
There are
http://www.restlet.org/documentation/2.0/jee/ext/org/restlet/ext/servlet/ServerServlet.html[three
possible ways] to configure a Restlet application within a servlet
container and using the subclassed SpringServerServlet enables
configuration within Camel by injecting the Restlet Component.

Use of the Restlet servlet within a servlet container enables routes to
be configured with relative paths in URIs (removing the restrictions of
hard-coded absolute URIs) and for the hosting servlet container to
handle incoming requests (rather than have to spawn a separate server
process on a new port).

To configure, add the following to your camel-context.xml;

xml<camelContext> <route id="RS_RestletDemo"> <from
uri="restlet:/demo/\{id}" /> <transform> <simple>Request type :
$\{header.CamelHttpMethod} and ID : $\{header.id}</simple> </transform>
</route> </camelContext> <bean id="RestletComponent"
class="org.restlet.Component" /> <bean id="RestletComponentService"
class="org.apache.camel.component.restlet.RestletComponent">
<constructor-arg index="0"> <ref bean="RestletComponent" />
</constructor-arg> </bean>

And add this to your web.xml;

xml<!-- Restlet Servlet --> <servlet>
<servlet-name>RestletServlet</servlet-name>
<servlet-class>org.restlet.ext.spring.SpringServerServlet</servlet-class>
<init-param> <param-name>org.restlet.component</param-name>
<param-value>RestletComponent</param-value> </init-param> </servlet>
<servlet-mapping> <servlet-name>RestletServlet</servlet-name>
<url-pattern>/rs/*</url-pattern> </servlet-mapping>

You will then be able to access the deployed route at
http://localhost:8080/mywebapp/rs/demo/1234 where;

localhost:8080 is the server and port of your servlet container +
mywebapp is the name of your deployed webapp +
Your browser will then show the following content;

"Request type : GET and ID : 1234"

You will need to add dependency on the Spring extension to restlet which
you can do in your Maven pom.xml file:

xml<dependency> <groupId>org.restlet.jee</groupId>
<artifactId>org.restlet.ext.spring</artifactId>
<version>$\{restlet-version}</version> </dependency>

And you would need to add dependency on the restlet maven repository as
well:

xml<repository> <id>maven-restlet</id> <name>Public online Restlet
repository</name> <url>http://maven.restlet.org</url> </repository>

link:endpoint-see-also.html[Endpoint See Also]
