[[ConfluenceContent]]
DSL supported

The link:scala-dsl.html[Scala DSL] supports *every* DSL from the
link:dsl.html[Java DSL].

On this page we have examples for a number of the link:eip.html[EIP]s. +
You can check the
https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/camel/trunk/components/camel-scala/src/test/scala/[unit
test source code] for the Scala Component to find more examples.

3truenone

[[ScalaDSL-EIP-Messagingsystems]]
Messaging systems
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

[[ScalaDSL-EIP-Pipelinepipeline]]
Pipeline pipeline
+++++++++++++++++

There is a simple syntax available for specifying pipeline, by simple
putting `to` or `→` between the different steps in the pipeline.

\{snippet:id=simple|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-scala/src/test/scala/org/apache/camel/scala/dsl/PipelineRouteBuilderTest.scala}

For more advanced use cases, you can also use a block-based syntax,
where every step in the pipeline starts with either `to` or `→`.

\{snippet:id=block|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-scala/src/test/scala/org/apache/camel/scala/dsl/PipelineRouteBuilderTest.scala}

[[ScalaDSL-EIP-Filterfilter]]
Filter filter
+++++++++++++

For a message filter, use the `when()` method with a parameter of type
The `Exchange ⇒ Boolean`. In the example below, we use a Scala
convenience method named `in` to access the 'in' message body; only
messages where the 'in' message is `<hello/>` will arrive at the
`mock:a` endpoint.

\{snippet:id=simple|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-scala/src/test/scala/org/apache/camel/scala/dsl/FilterRouteBuilderTest.scala}

Once again, if you need to specify a more advanced route, you can use
the more elaborate syntax.

\{snippet:id=alternatives|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-scala/src/test/scala/org/apache/camel/scala/dsl/FilterRouteBuilderTest.scala}

[[ScalaDSL-EIP-Messagingchannels]]
Messaging channels
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

[[ScalaDSL-EIP-Deadletterchannel]]
Dead letter channel
+++++++++++++++++++

The http://www.eaipatterns.com/DeadLetterChannel.html[dead letter
channel] can be created with the syntax similar to the one used in
http://camel.apache.org/dead-letter-channel.html[Java DSL].

java"jms:in" errorHandler(deadLetterChannel("jms:error")) to "jms:out"

You can also use different error handler available for the
http://camel.apache.org/error-handler.html[Java DSL]. In particular
Scala DSL supports
http://camel.apache.org/defaulterrorhandler.html[DefaultErrorHandler]
and
http://camel.apache.org/error-handler.html#ErrorHandler-LoggingErrorHandler[LoggingErrorHandler].

java// DefaultErrorHandler "jms:in" errorHandler(defaultErrorHandler) to
"jms:out" // LoggingErrorHandler "jms:in"
errorHandler(loggingErrorHandler.level(LoggingLevel.INFO).logName("com.example.MyLogger"))
to "jms:out"

[[ScalaDSL-EIP-Messagerouting]]
Message routing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

[[ScalaDSL-EIP-Aggregator]]
Aggregator
++++++++++

The aggregator EIP aggregates messages based on some message correlation
criteria. In the Scala DSL, the `aggregate` method takes a function
`Exchange ⇒ Any` to determine the correlation value for the exchange. In
the sample below, message are being aggregated if the first 7 letters in
the message body are the same.

\{snippet:id=block|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-scala/src/test/scala/org/apache/camel/scala/dsl/AggregatorTest.scala}

[[ScalaDSL-EIP-Contentbasedrouter]]
Content based router
++++++++++++++++++++

Similar to the link:scala-dsl-eip.html[Filter], the content based router
uses `when` methods with `Exchange ⇒ Boolean` function literals and an
optional `otherwise`. The function literal can contain plain Scala code
as well as any of the link:scala-dsl-supported-languages.html[supported
languages]. The example below routes a given message based on the
language of the message body.

\{snippet:id=cbr|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-scala/src/test/scala/org/apache/camel/scala/dsl/ContentBasedRouterTest.scala}

[[ScalaDSL-EIP-Delayer]]
Delayer
+++++++

Unlike a throttler, which only slows down messages if the rate exceeds a
treshold, a delayer delays every messages with a fixed amount of time.
An example: to delay every message going from `seda:a` to `mock:a` with
1 second, you write...

\{snippet:id=simple|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-scala/src/test/scala/org/apache/camel/scala/dsl/DelayerTest.scala}

Our second example will delay the entire block (containing `mock:c`)
without doing anything to `mock:b`

\{snippet:id=block|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-scala/src/test/scala/org/apache/camel/scala/dsl/DelayerTest.scala}

[[ScalaDSL-EIP-Loadbalancer]]
Load balancer
+++++++++++++

To distribute the message handling load over multiple endpoints, we add
a `loadbalance` to our route definition. You can optionally specify a
load balancer strategy, like `roundrobin`

\{snippet:id=loadbalance|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-scala/src/test/scala/org/apache/camel/scala/dsl/LoadBalancerTest.scala}

[[ScalaDSL-EIP-Multicast]]
Multicast
+++++++++

Multicast allows you to send a message to multiple endpoints at the same
time. In a simple route, you can specify multiple targets in the `to` or
`→` method call:

\{snippet:id=simple|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-scala/src/test/scala/org/apache/camel/scala/dsl/PipelineAndMulticastTest.scala}

[[ScalaDSL-EIP-Recipientlist]]
Recipient list
++++++++++++++

You can handle a static recipient list with a multicast or
link:scala-dsl-eip.html[pipeline], but this EIP is usually applied when
you want to dynamically determine the name(s) of the next endpoint(s) to
route to. Use the `recipients()` method with a function literal
(`Exchange => Any`) that returns the endpoint name(s). In the example
below, the target endpoint name can be found in the String message
starting at position 21.

\{snippet:id=simple|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-scala/src/test/scala/org/apache/camel/scala/dsl/RecipientListRouteTest.scala}

Because the `recipients()` method just takes a function literal, you can
basically use any kind of valid Scala code to determine the endpoint
name. Have a look at the next example which uses pattern matching to
figure out where to send the message:

\{snippet:id=pattern|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-scala/src/test/scala/org/apache/camel/scala/dsl/RecipientListRouteTest.scala}

Again, we can also use the same thing in a more block-like syntax. For
this example, we use the Scala DSL's
link:scala-dsl-supported-languages.html[support for JXPath] to determine
the target.

\{snippet:id=block|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-scala/src/test/scala/org/apache/camel/scala/dsl/RecipientListRouteTest.scala}

[[ScalaDSL-EIP-Resequencer]]
Resequencer
+++++++++++

Use the `resequence` method to add a resequencer to the RouteBuilder.
The method takes a function (`Exchange ⇒ Unit`) that determines the
value to resequence on. In this example, we resequence messages based on
the 'in' message body.

\{snippet:id=simple|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-scala/src/test/scala/org/apache/camel/scala/dsl/ResequencerTest.scala}

The same EIP can also be used with a block-like syntax...

\{snippet:id=block|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-scala/src/test/scala/org/apache/camel/scala/dsl/ResequencerTest.scala}

... and with configurable batch size. In this last example, messages
will be send to `mock:e` whenever a batch of 5 messages is available.

\{snippet:id=batch|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-scala/src/test/scala/org/apache/camel/scala/dsl/ResequencerTest.scala}

[[ScalaDSL-EIP-Splitter]]
Splitter
++++++++

To handle large message in smaller chunks, you can write a Scala
`Exchange ⇒ Any*` method and add it to your route with the `splitter`
method. As with many other EIPs, we support a short, in-line version as
well as a more elaborate block based one.

\{snippet:id=simple|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-scala/src/test/scala/org/apache/camel/scala/dsl/SplitterRouteBuilderTest.scala}
\{snippet:id=block|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-scala/src/test/scala/org/apache/camel/scala/dsl/SplitterRouteBuilderTest.scala}

The above examples also show you how
link:scala-dsl-supported-languages.html[other languages] like XPath can
be within the Scala DSL.

[[ScalaDSL-EIP-Throttler]]
Throttler
+++++++++

The throttler allows you to slow down messages before sending them
along. The `throttle` methods allows you to specify the maximum
throughput rate of message:

\{snippet:id=simple|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-scala/src/test/scala/org/apache/camel/scala/dsl/ThrottlerTest.scala}

It can also be used in front of block to throttle messages at that
point. In the example below, message are passed on to `mock:b` in a
normal rate (i.e. as fast as possible), but a maximum 3 messages/2
seconds will arrive at the `mock:c` endpoint.

\{snippet:id=block|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-scala/src/test/scala/org/apache/camel/scala/dsl/ThrottlerTest.scala}

[[ScalaDSL-EIP-Messagetransformation]]
Message transformation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

[[ScalaDSL-EIP-Contentenricher]]
Content enricher
++++++++++++++++

Using a processor function (`Exchange → Unit`), you can alter/enrich the
message content. This example uses a simple function literal to append
`" says Hello"` to the message content:

\{snippet:id=simple|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-scala/src/test/scala/org/apache/camel/scala/dsl/ContentEnricherTest.scala}

However, you can also define a separate method/function to handle the
transformation and pass that to the `process` method instead. The
example below uses pattern matching to enrich the message content:

\{snippet:id=def|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-scala/src/test/scala/org/apache/camel/scala/dsl/ContentEnricherTest.scala}

Off course, you can also use any other Camel component (e.g.
link:velocity.html[Velocity]) to enrich the content and add it to a
pipeline

\{snippet:id=velocity|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-scala/src/test/scala/org/apache/camel/scala/dsl/ContentEnricherTest.scala}
