[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[ShouldIdeployCamelinsidetheActiveMQbrokerorinanotherapplication-ShouldIdeployCamelinsidetheActiveMQbrokerorinanotherapplication]]
Should I deploy Camel inside the ActiveMQ broker or in another
application
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Whether you deploy the
link:enterprise-integration-patterns.html[Enterprise Integration
Patterns] inside the ActiveMQ Broker or in a separate application
depends on your requirements.

[[ShouldIdeployCamelinsidetheActiveMQbrokerorinanotherapplication-AdvantagesofdeployingEIPinsidethebroker]]
Advantages of deploying EIP inside the broker
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Its a single JVM so less moving parts and you're less likely to forget
to deploy something
* if you are doing things like polling resources such as files,
databases and bridging them to queues or topics then its usually more
efficient to host in the broker; as there's less contention and there's
no network communication between the EIP rules and the message broker as
its all in the same JVM (so you can use the
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/pages/createpage.action?spaceKey=CAMEL&title=VM+Transport+Reference&linkCreation=true&fromPageId=71153[VM
Transport] to avoid network overhead.

[[ShouldIdeployCamelinsidetheActiveMQbrokerorinanotherapplication-AdvantagesofdeployingEIPinsideaseparateapplication]]
Advantages of deploying EIP inside a separate application
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* its easier to deploy loads of JVMs containing the EIP routing rules to
get better load balancing
* you can easily change your routing rules then stop/restart
applications without having to restart your broker. Having said that
since ActiveMQ supports
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/pages/createpage.action?spaceKey=CAMEL&title=How+can+I+support+auto+reconnection&linkCreation=true&fromPageId=71153[auto
reconnection] its not such a big deal to bounce the Broker now and again
to refresh routing rules. Note that at some point
https://issues.apache.org/activemq/browse/CAMEL-234[Camel will support
auto-reload of routing rules on the fly without having to stop and
reload the JVM] so one day this won't be such a big benefit.

[[ShouldIdeployCamelinsidetheActiveMQbrokerorinanotherapplication-SeeAlso]]
See Also
^^^^^^^^

* http://activemq.apache.org/should-i-deploy-the-broker-inside-my-jvm-or-appserver.html[Should
I embed the broker in my JVM or run it separately]
