[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[space-index]]
Space Index
~~~~~~~~~~~

[cols=",,,,,",]
|=======================================================================
|link:#index-0-9[0-9] ... 0 |link:#index-A[A] ... 39 |link:#index-B[B]
... 43 |link:#index-C[C] ... 209 |link:#index-D[D] ... 32
|link:#index-E[E] ... 33

|link:#index-F[F] ... 15 |link:#index-G[G] ... 33 |link:#index-H[H] ...
88 |link:#index-I[I] ... 19 |link:#index-J[J] ... 32 |link:#index-K[K]
... 6

|link:#index-L[L] ... 20 |link:#index-M[M] ... 36 |link:#index-N[N] ...
12 |link:#index-O[O] ... 7 |link:#index-P[P] ... 27 |link:#index-Q[Q]
... 5

|link:#index-R[R] ... 33 |link:#index-S[S] ... 90 |link:#index-T[T] ...
44 |link:#index-U[U] ... 19 |link:#index-V[V] ... 8 |link:#index-W[W]
... 30

|link:#index-X[X] ... 14 |link:#index-Y[Y] ... 2 |link:#index-Z[Z] ... 4
|link:#index-%21@%23%24[!@#$] ... 0 |  | 
|=======================================================================

[[section]]
[[index-0-9]]0-9
++++++++++++++++

[[a]]
[[index-A]]A
++++++++++++

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Acknowledgment[Acknowledgment] +

Many thanks to the following organizations for helping the Camel
project. http://www.structure101.com/structure101-java/images/webapp.gif
Headway Software http://www.headwaysoftware.com/ provided free licenses
of Structure101 http://www.headwaysoftware.co

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/ActiveMQ[ActiveMQ] +

ActiveMQ Component The ActiveMQ component allows messages to be sent to
a JMS http://java.sun.com/products/jms/ Queue or Topic or messages to be
consumed from a JMS Queue or Topic using Apache ActiveMQ
http://activemq.apache.org/. This component is based

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/ActiveMQ+Camel+Tomcat[ActiveMQ
Camel Tomcat] +

Embedded ActiveMQ Broker with Camel running in Apache Tomcat example
Available as of Camel 2.11 This example shows how you can embed Apache
ActiveMQ Broker and Camel in a web application, which can run on Apache
Tomcat or other web containers. This exampl

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Add+New+Component+Guide[Add
New Component Guide] +

How to add a new component 1. Open an JIRA issue Open a JIRA issue at
https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/CAMEL
https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/CAMEL, if does not already exist.
The issue type should be "New Feature". A sample can be found here: h

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Advanced+configuration+of+CamelContext+using+Spring[Advanced
configuration of CamelContext using Spring] +

Advanced configuration of CamelContext using Spring When using Spring
the CamelContext can be pre configured based on defined beans in spring
XML. This wiki page documentes these features. Most of these features
requires Camel 2.0. What can be configured

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/AdviceWith[AdviceWith] +

AdviceWith Available as of Camel 2.1 AdviceWith is used for testing
Camel routes where you can advice an existing route before its being
tested. What adviceWith allows is to changes some factors on the route
before the test is being run. At the current ti

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Aggregate+Example[Aggregate
Example] +

Aggregate Example Available as of Camel 2.3 About This example
demonstrates the new overhauled Aggregator EIP in Apache Camel 2.3. The
example is focused on the persistence support, which means the
aggregated messages is stored in a persistent file storag

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Aggregator[Aggregator] +

Aggregator This applies for Camel version 2.2 or older. If you use a
newer version then the Aggregator has been rewritten from Camel 2.3 on
and you should use this Aggregator2 link instead. The Aggregator
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/Aggre

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Aggregator2[Aggregator2] +

Aggregator This applies for Camel version 2.3 or newer. If you use an
older version then use this Aggregator link instead. The Aggregator
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/Aggregator.html from the
EIP patterns allows you to combine a number of

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/AHC[AHC] +

Async Http Client (AHC) Component Available from Camel 2.8 The ahc
component provides HTTP based endpoints for consuming external HTTP
resources (as a client to call external servers using HTTP). The
component uses the Async Http Client https://github.com

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/AHC-WS[AHC-WS] +

Async Http Client (AHC) Websocket Client Component Available as of Camel
2.14 The ahc-ws component provides Websocket based endpoints for a
client communicating with external servers over Websocket (as a client
opening a websocket connection to an externa

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/AMQP[AMQP] +

AMQP The amqp: component supports the AMQP 1.0 protocol
http://www.amqp.org/ using the JMS Client API of the Qpid
https://github.com/apache/qpid-jms/ project. In case you want to use
AMQP 0.9 (in particular RabbitMQ) you might also be interested in the Ca

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Annotation+Based+Expression+Language[Annotation
Based Expression Language] +

Annotation Based Expression Language You can also use any of the
Languages supported in Camel to bind expressions to method parameters
when using Bean Integration. For example you can use any of these
annotations: Annotation Description @Bean http://camel

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/AOP[AOP] +

AOP Available as of Camel 2.0 The AOP has been marked as @deprecated in
Camel 2.4 and will be removed in a future release. The concept of the
AOP did not go in the directions we liked, so we decided it's better to
remove unused/less used features. Camel h

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Apache+Spark[Apache
Spark] +

Apache Spark component Apache Spark component is available starting from
Camel 2.17. This documentation page covers the Apache Spark
http://spark.apache.org/ component for the Apache Camel. The main
purpose of the Spark integration with Camel is to pro

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/APNS[APNS] +

Apns Component Available as of Camel 2.8 The apns component is used for
sending notifications to iOS devices. The apns components use javapns
https://github.com/notnoop/java-apns library. The component supports
sending notifications to Apple Push Notifica

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Architecture[Architecture] +

Architecture Camel uses a Java based Routing Domain Specific Language
(DSL) or an Xml Configuration to configure routing and mediation rules
which are added to a CamelContext
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/CamelC

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Articles[Articles] +

See also Camel User Stories http://camel.apache.org/user-stories.html.
If you have never used or seen Camel before, then you should start with
Apache Camel Tutorial – Introduction to EIP, Routes, Components,
Testing, and other Concepts http://www.kai-waeh

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/AsciiDoc[AsciiDoc] +

We keep the documentation in the source code in the javadoc for the
setter methods on the component and endpoint classes. We use this to
generate and keep documentation up to date. Though this is not yet
complete and work in progress. But eventually the C

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Async[Async] +

Async Available as of Camel 2.0 The asynchronous API in Camel have been
rewritten for Camel 2.0, and the information on this page applies for
Camel 2.0 and later. The Async API in Camel is primarily divided in two
areas: Initiating an Async messaging from

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Asynchronous+Processing[Asynchronous
Processing] +

Asynchronous Processing Overview The information on this page applies
for Camel 2.4 or later. Before Camel 2.4 the asynchronous processing is
only implemented for JBI where as in Camel 2.4 we have implemented it in
many other areas. See more at Asynchrono

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Asynchronous+Queueing[Asynchronous
Queueing] +

For details see the discussion on Asynchronous Queueing on the SOA
Patterns site
http://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/SOA+Patterns. To
implement asynchronous queueing just send a message to an async endpoint
like JMS or SEDA. You can also forc

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Asynchronous+Routing+Engine[Asynchronous
Routing Engine] +

Asynchronous Routing Engine Available as of Camel 2.4 As of Camel 2.4
the asynchronous routing engine is back and kicking. All the Enterprise
Integration Patterns are supported as well a selected number of
Components. When we say a component is supported,

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/AsyncProcessorAwaitManager[AsyncProcessorAwaitManager] +

AsyncProcessorAwaitManager Available as of Camel 2.15 The
AsyncProcessorAwaitManager is used by the routing engine to mange
blocked threads waiting for a signal to trigger before the thread should
wake up and continue routing the exchange. This is only in

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Atmosphere-Websocket[Atmosphere-Websocket] +

Atmosphere Websocket Servlet Component Available as of Camel 2.14 The
atmosphere-websocket: component provides Websocket based endpoints for a
servlet communicating with external clients over Websocket (as a servlet
accepting websocket connections from ex

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Atom[Atom] +

Atom Component The atom: component is used for polling Atom feeds. Camel
will poll the feed every 60 seconds by default. Note: The component
currently only supports polling (consuming) feeds. Maven users will need
to add the following dependency to their

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/avro[avro] +

Avro Component Available as of Camel 2.10 This component provides a
dataformat for avro, which allows serialization and deserialization of
messages using Apache Avro's binary dataformat. Moreover, it provides
support for Apache Avro's rpc, by providing pr

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/AWS[AWS] +

Camel Components for Amazon Web Services The Camel Components for Amazon
Web Services http://aws.amazon.com provide connectivity to AWS services
from Camel. AWS Service Camel Component Camel Version Component
Description Simple Queue Service (SQS) http:

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/AWS-CW[AWS-CW] +

CW Component *Available as of Camel 2.11 The CW component allows
messages to be sent to an Amazon CloudWatch
http://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/ metrics. The implementation of the
Amazon API is provided by the AWS SDK http://aws.amazon.com/sdkforjava/.
You

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/AWS-DDB[AWS-DDB] +

DDB Component Available as of Camel 2.10 The DynamoDB component supports
storing and retrieving data from/to Amazon's DynamoDB
http://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb service. You must have a valid Amazon Web
Services developer account, and be signed up to use Ama

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/AWS-DDBSTREAM[AWS-DDBSTREAM] +

DynamoDB Stream Component Available as of Camel 2.7 The DynamoDB Stream
component supports receiving messages from Amazon DynamoDB Stream
service. You must have a valid Amazon Web Services developer account,
and be signed up to use Amazon DynamoDB Streams

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/AWS-EC2[AWS-EC2] +

EC2 Component Available as of Camel 2.16 The EC2 component supports
create, run, start, stop and terminate AWS EC2
https://aws.amazon.com/it/ec2/ instances. You must have a valid Amazon
Web Services developer account, and be signed up to use Amazon EC2. M

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/AWS-KINESIS[AWS-KINESIS] +

Kinesis Component Available as of Camel 2.17 The Kinesis component
supports receiving messages from and sending messages to Amazon Kinesis
service. You must have a valid Amazon Web Services developer account,
and be signed up to use Amazon Kinesis. More i

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/AWS-S3[AWS-S3] +

S3 Component Available as of Camel 2.8 The S3 component supports storing
and retrieving objetcs from/to Amazon's S3 http://aws.amazon.com/s3
service. You must have a valid Amazon Web Services developer account,
and be signed up to use Amazon S3. More info

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/AWS-SDB[AWS-SDB] +

SDB Component Available as of Camel 2.8.4 The sdb component supports
storing and retrieving data from/to Amazon's SDB
http://aws.amazon.com/sdb service. You must have a valid Amazon Web
Services developer account, and be signed up to use Amazon SDB. More

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/AWS-SES[AWS-SES] +

SES Component Available as of Camel 2.8.4 The ses component supports
sending emails with Amazon's SES http://aws.amazon.com/ses service. You
must have a valid Amazon Web Services developer account, and be signed
up to use Amazon SES. More information are

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/AWS-SNS[AWS-SNS] +

SNS Component Available as of Camel 2.8 The SNS component allows
messages to be sent to an Amazon Simple Notification
http://aws.amazon.com/sns Topic. The implementation of the Amazon API is
provided by the AWS SDK http://aws.amazon.com/sdkforjava/. You m

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/AWS-SQS[AWS-SQS] +

SQS Component Available as of Camel 2.6 The sqs component supports
sending and receiving messages to Amazon's SQS http://aws.amazon.com/sqs
service. You must have a valid Amazon Web Services developer account,
and be signed up to use Amazon SQS. More info

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/AWS-SWF[AWS-SWF] +

SWF Component Available as of Camel 2.13 The Simple Workflow component
supports managing workflows from Amazon's Simple Workflow
http://aws.amazon.com/swf/ service. You must have a valid Amazon Web
Services developer account, and be signed up to use Amazo

[[b]]
[[index-B]]B
++++++++++++

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/BacklogDebugger[BacklogDebugger] +

BacklogDebugger Available from Camel 2.12 Camel supports a backlog
debugger that is used for live debugging of message they are routed in
Camel. The backlog debugger has additional functionality for easier
debugging aimed at tooling, than the Debugger. Th

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/BacklogTracer[BacklogTracer] +

BacklogTracer Interceptor Available as of Camel 2.11 Camel supports a
backlog tracer interceptor that is used for capturing a trace message of
each message as they are routed in Camel. The trace message is stored in
a backlog queue, which contains the las

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/BAM[BAM] +

Business Activity Monitoring The Camel BAM module provides a Business
Activity Monitoring (BAM) framework for testing business processes
across multiple message exchanges on different Endpoint instances.
Consider, for example, a simple system in which you

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/BAM+Example[BAM
Example] +

Business Activity Monitor (BAM) Example The BAM (Business Activity
Monitor) example shows how to monitor your transaction flows using
Camel. In this example we will use Camel to monitor a business process
consisting of purchase orders invoices Then we wil

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Banner[Banner] +

<div id="asf_logo"> <div id="activemq_logo" style="height:108px;
background:transparent url(banner.data/apache-camel-7.png) no-repeat
scroll left top;"> <a style="float:left;
width:310px;display:block;text-indent:-5000px;text-decoration:none;line-height:1

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Barcode+Data+Format[Barcode
Data Format] +

Available as of Camel 2.14 The barcode data format is based on the zxing
library https://github.com/zxing/zxing. The goal of this component is to
create a barcode image from a String (marshal) and a String from a
barcode image (unmarshal). You're free to

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Base64[Base64] +

Base64 Data Format Available as of Camel 2.11 The Base64 Data Format is
a data format for base64 encoding and decoding
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Base64. Options Option Default Description
lineLength 76 To specific a maximum line length for the encoded

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Batch+Consumer[Batch
Consumer] +

Batch Consumer Available as of Camel 2.0 Batch Consumer is basically a
Polling Consumer that is capable of polling multiple Exchanges in a
pool. The interface org.apache.camel.BatchConsumer should be implemented
by a consumer to indicate that it supports

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Bean[Bean] +

Bean Component The bean: component binds beans to Camel message
exchanges. URI format bean:beanID[?options] Where beanID can be any
string which is used to look up the bean in the Registry Options Name
Type Default Description method String null The metho

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Bean+Binding[Bean
Binding] +

Bean Binding Bean Binding in Camel defines both which methods are
invoked and also how the Message is converted into the parameters of the
method when it is invoked. Choosing the method to invoke The binding of
a Camel Message to a bean method call can oc

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Bean+Injection[Bean
Injection] +

Bean Injection We support the injection of various resources using
@EndpointInject or @BeanInject. This can be used to inject Endpoint
instances which can be used for testing when used with Mock endpoints;
see the Spring Testing for an example. ProducerTe

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Bean+Integration[Bean
Integration] +

Bean Integration Camel supports the integration of beans and POJOs in a
number of ways Annotations If a bean is defined in Spring XML or scanned
using the Spring component scanning mechanism and a <camelContext> is
used or a CamelBeanPostProcessor then we

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Bean+Language[Bean
Language] +

Bean Language The purpose of the Bean Language is to be able to
implement an Expression or Predicate using a simple method on a bean.
The bean name is resolved using a Registry, such as the Spring
ApplicationContext, then a method is invoked to evaluate t

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Bean+Validator[Bean
Validator] +

Bean Validator Component Available as of Camel 2.3 The Validator
component performs bean validation of the message body using the Java
Bean Validation API (JSR 303 http://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=303). Camel
uses the reference implementation, which is Hib

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/BeanIO[BeanIO] +

BeanIO Available as of Camel 2.10 The BeanIO Data Format uses BeanIO
http://beanio.org/ to handle flat payloads (such as XML, CSV, delimited,
or fixed length formats). BeanIO is configured using a mappings XML
http://beanio.org/2.0/docs/reference/index.ht

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/BeanShell[BeanShell] +

BeanShell Camel supports BeanShell http://www.beanshell.org/ among other
Scripting Languages to allow an Expression or Predicate to be used in
the DSL or Xml Configuration. To use a BeanShell expression use the
following Java code: ...choice() .when(scrip

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Beanstalk[Beanstalk] +

Beanstalk component Available in Camel 2.15 camel-beanstalk project
provides a Camel component for job retrieval and post-processing of
Beanstalk jobs. You can find the detailed explanation of Beanstalk job
lifecycle at Beanstalk protocol http://github.co

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Better+JMS+Transport+for+CXF+Webservice+using+Apache+Camel[Better
JMS Transport for CXF Webservice using Apache Camel] +

Better JMS Transport for CXF Webservice using Apache Camel Configuring
JMS in Apache CXF before Version 2.1.3 is possible but not really easy
or nice. This article shows how to use Apache Camel to provide a better
JMS Transport for CXF. Update: Since CXF

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Binding[Binding] +

Binding In Camel terms a binding is a way of wrapping an Endpoint in a
contract; such as a Data Format, a Content Enricher or validation step.
Bindings are completely optional and you can choose to use them on any
camel endpoint. Bindings are inspired by

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Bindy[Bindy] +

Bindy The goal of this component is to allow the parsing/binding of
non-structured data (or to be more precise non-XML data) to/from Java
Beans that have binding mappings defined with annotations. Using Bindy,
you can bind data from sources such as : CSV

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Blueprint+Testing[Blueprint
Testing] +

Blueprint Testing Available as of Camel 2.10 camel-test-blueprint does
only support testing one CamelContext. So if you have two or more
CamelContexts in your blueprint XML files, then only the CamelContext
first found is used during testing. Testing is a

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Book[Book] +

Book These pages are used to create the DocBook for the User Guide
Introduction Getting Started Architecture Enterprise Integration
Patterns Cook Book Tutorials Languages Appendix DataFormat Appendix
Pattern Appendix Component Appendix

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Book+Architecture[Book
Architecture] +

Architecture Architecture Languages Supported For a full details of the
individual languages see the Language Appendix URIs For a full details
of the individual components see the Component Appendix

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Book+Component+Appendix[Book
Component Appendix] +

Component Appendix There now follows the documentation on each Camel
component. ActiveMQ ActiveMQ Journal AMQP AWS-SQS Atom Bean Bean
Validation Browse Cache Class Cometd Context Crypto (Digital Signatures)
CXF CXF Bean Component CXFRS Dataset Db4o Direct

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Book+cookbook[Book
cookbook] +

CookBook Cookbook Bean Integration Annotation Based Expression Language
Bean Binding Bean Injection Parameter Binding Annotations POJO Consuming
POJO Producing RecipientList Annotation Using Exchange Pattern
Annotations Hiding Middleware Visualisation BAM

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Book+DataFormat+Appendix[Book
DataFormat Appendix] +

Data Format Appendix Data Format Serialization JAXB XmlBeans XStream CSV
String HL7 DataFormat EDI Flatpack DataFormat JSON Zip DataFormat
TidyMarkup Bindy XMLSecurity DataFormat GZip data format Castor Protobuf
SOAP Crypto Syslog

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Book+Enterprise+Integration+Patterns[Book
Enterprise Integration Patterns] +

Enterprise Integration Patterns Camel supports most of the Enterprise
Integration Patterns
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/toc.html from the excellent
book
http://www.amazon.com/dp/0321200683?tag=enterpriseint-20&camp=14573&creative=327641&li

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Book+Front+Cover[Book
Front Cover] +

Apache Camel User Guide <h3 id="replaceme">Version 2.15.0</h3> Copyright
2007-2016, Apache Software Foundation

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Book+Getting+Started[Book
Getting Started] +

Getting Started with Apache Camel The Enterprise Integration Patterns
(EIP) book The purpose of a "patterns" book is not to advocate new
techniques that the authors have invented, but rather to document
existing best practices within a particular field. B

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Book+In+One+Page[Book
In One Page] +

Book Front Cover Book Table of Contents Book Introduction Book
Quickstart Book Getting Started Book Architecture Book Enterprise
Integration Patterns Book cookbook Book Tutorials Book Languages
Appendix Book DataFormat Appendix Book Pattern Appendix Book

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Book+Introduction[Book
Introduction] +

Introduction What is Camel

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Book+Languages+Appendix[Book
Languages Appendix] +

Languages Supported Appendix To support flexible and powerful Enterprise
Integration Patterns Camel supports various Languages to create an
Expression or Predicate within either the Routing Domain Specific
Language or the Xml Configuration. The following

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Book+Pattern+Appendix[Book
Pattern Appendix] +

Pattern Appendix There now follows a breakdown of the various Enterprise
Integration Patterns
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/toc.html that Camel
supports Messaging Systems Message Channel Message Pipes and Filters
Message Router Message Tran

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Book+Quickstart[Book
Quickstart] +

Quickstart To start using Apache Camel quickly, you can read through
some simple examples in this chapter. For readers who would like a more
thorough introduction, please skip ahead to Chapter 3. Walk through an
Example Walk through another example

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Book+Table+of+Contents[Book
Table of Contents] +

Table of Contents <ul class="toc"> <li class="frontmatter"><a
href="#toc">Table of Contents</a></li> <!-- <li class="frontmatter"><a
href="#preface">Preface</a></li> --> <li class="chapter"><a
href="#chapter-introduction">Introduction</a></li> <li class="

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Book+Tutorials[Book
Tutorials] +

Tutorials There now follows the documentation on camel tutorials
Tutorials Tutorial-JmsRemoting Tutorial-Example-ReportIncident
Tutorial-Example-ReportIncident-Part1
Tutorial-Example-ReportIncident-Part2
Tutorial-Example-ReportIncident-Part3 Tutorial-Exam

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Books[Books] +

Books This page lists the known books about Apache Camel. If you happen
to know a book which is not listed then please contact us, for example
using the Mailing Lists. Camel in Action 2nd edition
http://manning.com/ibsen2/ Camel in Action http://www.manni

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Boon[Boon] +

Boon (v2.16 onwards) Boon is a Data Format which uses the Boon JSON
http://richardhightower.github.io/site/Boon/Welcome.html marshalling
library to unmarshal an JSON payload into Java objects or to marshal
Java objects into an JSON payload. Boon aims to b

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Box[Box] +

Box Component Available as of Camel 2.14 The Box component provides
access to all of the Box.com APIs accessible using box-java-sdk
https://github.com/box/box-java-sdk. It allows producing messages to
upload and download files, create, edit, and manage fo

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Braintree[Braintree] +

Braintree Component Available as of Camel 2.17 The Braintree component
provides access to Braintree Payments https://www.braintreepayments.com/
services which support the following payment methods: Credit and debit
card https://www.braintreepayments.com/p

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/BrowsableEndpoint[BrowsableEndpoint] +

BrowsableEndpoint BrowsableEndpoint
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/spi/BrowsableEndpoint.html
is an extension interface an Endpoint may implement to support the
browsing of the Message exchanges which are pending

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Browse[Browse] +

Browse Component The Browse component provides a simple
BrowsableEndpoint which can be useful for testing, visualisation tools
or debugging. The exchanges sent to the endpoint are all available to be
browsed. URI format browse:someName[?options] Where som

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Building[Building] +

Building Camel from Source Camel uses Maven http://maven.apache.org/ as
its build and management tool. If you don't fancy using Maven you can
use your IDE directly or Download a distribution or JAR. Prequisites
Required: Download and install Maven http://

[[c]]
[[index-C]]C
++++++++++++

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Cache[Cache] +

Cache Component This component is deprecated. As of Camel 2.18.0 You
should use Ehcache. Available as of Camel 2.1 The cache component
enables you to perform caching operations using EHCache as the Cache
Implementation. The cache itself is created on dema

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/cacheReplicationJMSExample[cacheReplicationJMSExample] +

Example: JMS cache replication Please note, that this example is not
finished yet. It is based on OSGi iTest instead of real life example.
But no matter to that it is very good staring point for all Camel Cache
Riders! JMS replication is the most powerful

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Cafe+Example[Cafe
Example] +

Cafe Example This example shows how to use Camel to implement a Cafe use
case. First It uses the splitter to dispatch the order, then sends the
orders to barista by checking if the coffee is hot or cold. When the
coffee is ready, we use a aggregate to gat

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+1.0.0+Release[Camel
1.0.0 Release] +

http://activemq.apache.org/camel/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the first 1.0.0 release packed with
features, Enterprise Integration Patterns, great support for Spring and
a whole host of Components. Saddle up and t

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+1.1.0+Release[Camel
1.1.0 Release] +

http://activemq.apache.org/camel/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 1.1.0 release which includes a number
of new features, improvements and bug fixes. hugely improved Bean
Integration to work nicely with beans and C

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+1.2.0+Release[Camel
1.2.0 Release] +

http://activemq.apache.org/camel/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 1.2.0 release which includes 61 new
features, improvements and bug fixes such as... Data Format to support
pluggable marshalling and unmarshalling

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+1.3.0+Release[Camel
1.3.0 Release] +

http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 1.3.0 release which includes 208 new features,
improvements and bug fixes such as... improved Bean Integration improved
testing via Spring Testing along wit

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+1.4.0+Release[Camel
1.4.0 Release] +

Camel 1.4.0 release
http://activemq.apache.org/camel/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 1.4.0 release which includes 261 new
features, improvements and bug fixes such as... major improvements in
JMS and Mail compone

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+1.5.0+Release[Camel
1.5.0 Release] +

Camel 1.5.0 release
http://activemq.apache.org/camel/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 1.5.0 release which approx 266 issues
resolved (new features, improvements and bug fixes such as...) support
for Guice for depe

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+1.6.0+Release[Camel
1.6.0 Release] +

Camel 1.6.0 release
http://activemq.apache.org/camel/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 1.6.0 release which approx 169 issues
resolved (new features, improvements and bug fixes such as...)
RedeliveryPolicy added sup

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+1.6.1+Release[Camel
1.6.1 Release] +

Camel 1.6.1 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 1.6.1 release which approx 93 issues resolved
(new features, improvements and bug fixes such as...) Performance
enhancement when sending

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+1.6.2+Release[Camel
1.6.2 Release] +

Camel 1.6.2 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 1.6.2 release which approx 101 issues resolved
(new features, improvements and bug fixes such as...) Fixes for OSGi
bundles. Support mul

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+1.6.3+Release[Camel
1.6.3 Release] +

Camel 1.6.3 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 1.6.3 release which approx 39 issues resolved
(new features, improvements and bug fixes such as...) Use UTF-8 as the
default charset Loc

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+1.6.4+Release[Camel
1.6.4 Release] +

Camel 1.6.4 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 1.6.4 release that includes 7 issues resolved.
This is the last release of the camel-1.x branch. Message content
redelivered asynchronou

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.0+Design[Camel
2.0 Design] +

Camel 2.0 Design This wiki page lists the overall goals of the 2.0
release of Camel. For a detailed view see the Camel 2.0 JIRA roadmap
http://issues.apache.org/activemq/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa?reset=true&pid=11020&fixfor=11900
Main features New async

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.0-M1+Release[Camel
2.0-M1 Release] +

Camel 2.0-M1 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the first milestone 2.0-M1 release of the new
Apache Camel project, including 368 issues resolved (new features,
improvements and bug fixes

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.0-M2+Release[Camel
2.0-M2 Release] +

Camel 2.0-M2 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.0-M2 release which approx 222 issues
resolved (new features, improvements and bug fixes such as...)
Introduced type converter registr

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.0-M3+Release[Camel
2.0-M3 Release] +

Camel 2.0-M3 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.0-M3 release which approx 109 issues
resolved (new features, improvements and bug fixes such as...) Complete
removal of specialized E

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.0.0+Release[Camel
2.0.0 Release] +

Camel 2.0.0 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.0.0 release which approx 760 issues resolved
(new features, improvements and bug fixes such as...) Introduced type
converter registry

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.1.0+Release[Camel
2.1.0 Release] +

Camel 2.1.0 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.1.0 release which approx 303 issues resolved
(new features, improvements and bug fixes such as...) Pluggable API for
Management allowi

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.10.0+Release[Camel
2.10.0 Release] +

Camel 2.10.0 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.10.0 release with approximately 483 issues
resolved - including new features, improvements, and bug fixes, such as:
Added support for

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.10.1+Release[Camel
2.10.1 Release] +

Camel 2.10.1 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.10.1 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 65 issues resolved. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apache.o

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.10.2+Release[Camel
2.10.2 Release] +

Camel 2.10.2 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.10.2 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 71 issues resolved. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apache.o

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.10.3+Release[Camel
2.10.3 Release] +

Camel 2.10.3 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.10.3 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 74 issues resolved. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apache.o

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.10.4+Release[Camel
2.10.4 Release] +

Camel 2.10.4 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.10.4 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 107 issues resolved. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apache.

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.10.5+Release[Camel
2.10.5 Release] +

Camel 2.10.5 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.10.5 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 108 issues resolved. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apache.

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.10.6+Release[Camel
2.10.6 Release] +

Camel 2.10.6 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.10.6 release which is mainly a bug fix
release to address CVE-2013-2160
https://cxf.apache.org/security-advisories.data/CVE-2013-2160

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.10.7+Release[Camel
2.10.7 Release] +

Camel 2.10.7 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.10.7 release which mainly address
CVE-2013-4330
http://camel.apache.org/security-advisories.data/CVE-2013-4330.txt.asc
and comes wi

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.11.0+Release[Camel
2.11.0 Release] +

Camel 2.11.0 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.11.0 release with approximately 679 issues
resolved - including new features, improvements, and bug fixes, such as:
Camel RX provides

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.11.1+Release[Camel
2.11.1 Release] +

Camel 2.11.1 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.11.1 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 110 issues resolved. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apache.

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.11.2+release[Camel
2.11.2 release] +

Camel 2.11.2 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.11.2 release which mainly address
CVE-2013-4330
http://camel.apache.org/security-advisories.data/CVE-2013-4330.txt.asc
and comes with

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.11.3+release[Camel
2.11.3 release] +

Camel 2.11.3 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.11.3 release which comes with about 116
issues resolved. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.11.4+Release[Camel
2.11.4 Release] +

Camel 2.11.4 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.11.4 release which comes with about 26
issues resolved. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.12.0+Release[Camel
2.12.0 Release] +

Camel 2.12.0 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.12.0 release which approx XXX issues
resolved (new features, improvements and bug fixes such as...) Endpoint
Annotations along with a

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.12.1+Release[Camel
2.12.1 Release] +

Camel 2.12.1 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.12.1 release which mainly address
CVE-2013-4330
http://camel.apache.org/security-advisories.data/CVE-2013-4330.txt.asc
and comes with

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.12.2+Release[Camel
2.12.2 Release] +

Camel 2.12.2 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.12.2 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 145 issues resolved.. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apache

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.12.3+Release[Camel
2.12.3 Release] +

Camel 2.12.3 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.12.3 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 140 issues resolved.. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apac

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.12.4+Release[Camel
2.12.4 Release] +

Camel 2.12.4 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.12.4 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 107 issues resolved.. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apac

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.12.5+Release[Camel
2.12.5 Release] +

Camel 2.12.5 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.12.5 release which mainly comes with 75
issues resolved. This is the last planned Camel 2.12.x release. For more
details see the JI

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.13.0+Release[Camel
2.13.0 Release] +

Camel 2.13.0 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.13.0 release which approx 480 issues
resolved (new features, improvements and bug fixes such as...) Using
<camelContext> in Spring

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.13.1+Release[Camel
2.13.1 Release] +

Camel 2.13.1 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.13.1 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 140 issues resolved.. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apac

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.13.2+Release[Camel
2.13.2 Release] +

Camel 2.13.2 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.13.2 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 41 issues resolved.. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apach

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.13.3+Release[Camel
2.13.3 Release] +

Camel 2.13.3 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.13.3 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 103 issues resolved.. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apac

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.13.4+Release[Camel
2.13.4 Release] +

Camel 2.13.4 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.13.4 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 103 issues resolved.. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apac

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.14.0+Release[Camel
2.14.0 Release] +

Camel 2.14.0 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.14.0 release which approx 399 issues
resolved (new features, improvements and bug fixes such as...) Support
for running on Java 1.8

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.14.1+Release[Camel
2.14.1 Release] +

Camel 2.14.1 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.14.1 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 103 issues resolved.. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apac

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.14.2+Release[Camel
2.14.2 Release] +

Camel 2.14.2 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.14.2 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 103 issues resolved.. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apac

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.14.3+Release[Camel
2.14.3 Release] +

Camel 2.14.3 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.14.3 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 103 issues resolved.. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apac

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.14.4+Release[Camel
2.14.4 Release] +

Camel 2.14.4 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.14.4 release which is mainly a
bug-fix release with 18 issues resolved. For more details, see the list
of JIRA tickets https://issues.apache.org/j

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.15.0+Release[Camel
2.15.0 Release] +

Camel 2.15.0 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.15.0 release which approx 500 issues
resolved (new features, improvements and bug fixes such as...)
Component, data format, languag

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.15.1+Release[Camel
2.15.1 Release] +

Camel 2.15.1 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.15.1 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 103 issues resolved.. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apac

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.15.2+Release[Camel
2.15.2 Release] +

Camel 2.15.2 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.15.2 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 82 issues resolved.. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apach

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.15.3+Release[Camel
2.15.3 Release] +

Camel 2.15.3 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.15.3 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with over 100 issues resolved.. For more details see the JIRA
tickets https://issues

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.15.4+Release[Camel
2.15.4 Release] +

Camel 2.15.4 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.15.4 release which is mainly a bug
fix release with over 40 issues resolved. For more details, see the list
of JIRA tickets https://issues.apache

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.15.5+Release[Camel
2.15.5 Release] +

Camel 2.15.5 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.15.5 release which is mainly a bug
fix release with 19 fixes and improvements. For further details, see the
list of JIRA issues https://issues.apa

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.15.6+Release[Camel
2.15.6 Release] +

Camel 2.15.6 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.15.6 release which is mainly a bug
fix release with 37 fixes and improvements. For further details, see the
list of JIRA issues https://issues.apa

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.16.0+Release[Camel
2.16.0 Release] +

Camel 2.16.0 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.16.0 release which approx 600 issues
resolved (new features, improvements and bug fixes such as...)
Noteworthy improvements: The ro

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.16.1+Release[Camel
2.16.1 Release] +

Camel 2.16.1 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.16.1 release which is mainly a bug
fix release with over 60 issues resolved. For further details, see the
list of JIRA issues https://issues.apach

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.16.2+Release[Camel
2.16.2 Release] +

Camel 2.16.2 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.16.2 release which is mainly a
maintenance release with over 70 issues resolved. For further details,
see the list of JIRA issues https://issues.a

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.16.3+Release[Camel
2.16.3 Release] +

Camel 2.16.3 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.16.3 release which is mainly a
maintenance release with voer 75 issues resolved. For further details,
see the list of JIRA issues https://issues.a

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.16.4+Release[Camel
2.16.4 Release] +

Camel 2.16.4 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.16.4 release which is mainly a bug
fix release with over 50 fixes and improvements. API breaking See Camel
2.16.0 Release http://camel.apache.org/

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.17.0+Release[Camel
2.17.0 Release] +

Camel 2.17.0 Release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.17.0 release which resolved approx. 450
issues (new features, improvements and bug fixes). The component
documentation generated fr

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.17.1+Release[Camel
2.17.1 Release] +

Camel 2.17.1 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.17.1 release which is mainly a
maintenance release with 94 issues resolved. For further details, see
the list of JIRA issues https://issues.apache

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.17.2+Release[Camel
2.17.2 Release] +

Camel 2.17.2 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.17.2 release which is mainly a
maintenance release with 58 issues resolved. For further details, see
the list of JIRA issues https://issues.apache

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.17.3+Release[Camel
2.17.3 Release] +

Camel 2.17.3 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.17.3 release which is mainly a
maintenance release with 40 issues resolved. For further details, see
the list of JIRA issues https://issues.apache

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.17.4+Release[Camel
2.17.4 Release] +

Camel 2.17.4 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.17.4 release which is mainly a
maintenance release with 40+ fixes resolved. For further details, see
the list of JIRA issues https://issues.apache

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.17.5+Release[Camel
2.17.5 Release] +

Camel 2.17.5 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.17.4 release which is mainly a
maintenance release with 20+ fixes resolved. For further details, see
the list of JIRA issues https://issues.apache

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.17.6+Release[Camel
2.17.6 Release] +

Camel 2.17.6 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.17.6 release which is mainly a
maintenance release with 17 fixes resolved. For further details, see the
list of JIRA issues https://issues.apache.

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.17.7+Release[Camel
2.17.7 Release] +

Camel 2.17.7 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.17.7 release which is mainly a
maintenance release with 15 fixes resolved. Known Issues See Camel
2.17.0 Release http://camel.apache.org/camel-217

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.18.0+Release[Camel
2.18.0 Release] +

Camel 2.18.0 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.18.0 release which resolved over 500 issues.
This is first release that requires Java 8 and comes with a
much-improved Spring Boot

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.18.1+Release[Camel
2.18.1 Release] +

Camel 2.18.1 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.18.1 release which is mainly a
maintenance release with 68 fixes resolved. For further details, see the
list of JIRA issues https://issues.apache.

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.18.2+Release[Camel
2.18.2 Release] +

Camel 2.18.2 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.18.2 release which is mainly a
maintenance release with 68 fixes resolved. For further details, see the
list of JIRA issues https://issues.apache.

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.18.3+Release[Camel
2.18.3 Release] +

Camel 2.18.3 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.18.3 release which is mainly a
maintenance release with 38 fixes resolved. For further details, see the
list of JIRA issues https://issues.apache.

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.18.4+Release[Camel
2.18.4 Release] +

Camel 2.18.4 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.18.4 release which is mainly a
maintenance release with 44 fixes resolved. Known Issues See Camel
2.18.0 Release http://camel.apache.org/camel-218

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.18.5+Release[Camel
2.18.5 Release] +

Camel 2.18.5 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.18.5 release which is mainly a
maintenance release with 51 issues resolved. Known Issues See Camel
2.18.0 Release http://camel.apache.org/camel-21

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.19.0+Release[Camel
2.19.0 Release] +

Camel 2.19.0 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.19.0 release which resolved over 670
issues including new features, improvements and bug fixes. Introduced
Camel Connector https://github.com/apac

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.19.1+Release[Camel
2.19.1 Release] +

Camel 2.19.1 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.19.1 release which is mainly a
maintenance release and resolved over 57 issues. Known Issues See Camel
2.19.0 Release. Important changes to consid

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.19.2+Release[Camel
2.19.2 Release] +

Camel 2.19.2 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.19.2 release which is mainly a
maintenance release and resolved 41 issues. Known Issues See Camel
2.19.0 Release http://camel.apache.org/camel-219

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.19.3+Release[Camel
2.19.3 Release] +

Camel 2.19.3 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.19.3 release which is a maintenance
release and resolved 40 issues. Known Issues See Camel 2.19.0 Release
http://camel.apache.org/camel-2190-relea

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.19.4+Release[Camel
2.19.4 Release] +

Camel 2.19.4 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.19.4 release which is a maintenance
release and resolved 39 issues. Known Issues See Camel 2.19.0 Release
http://camel.apache.org/camel-2190-relea

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.2.0+Release[Camel
2.2.0 Release] +

Camel 2.2.0 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.2.0 release which approx 180 issues resolved
(new features, improvements and bug fixes such as...) Routing Slip now
breaks when an exc

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.20.0+Release[Camel
2.20.0 Release] +

Camel 2.20.0 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.20.0 release which resolved over 550
issues including new features, improvements and bug fixes. Support for
Java 9 as a technical preview. Offici

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.20.1+Release[Camel
2.20.1 Release] +

Camel 2.20.1 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.20.1 release which is a maintenance
release and resolved 65 issues. Known Issues See Camel 2.20.0 Release
Important changes to consider when upgra

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.20.2+Release[Camel
2.20.2 Release] +

Camel 2.20.2 Release http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png
New and Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.20.2 release which is a maintenance
release and resolved 41 issues. API breaking See Camel 2.20.0 Release
http://camel.apache.org/camel-2200-relea

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.20.3+Release[Camel
2.20.3 Release] +

Camel 2.20.3 Release (currently in progress)
http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png New and Noteworthy
Welcome to the x.y.z release which approx XXX issues resolved (new
features, improvements and bug fixes such as...) highlighted issue fixed

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.21.0+Release[Camel
2.21.0 Release] +

Camel x.y.z Release (currently in progress)
http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png New and Noteworthy
Welcome to the x.y.z release which approx XXX issues resolved (new
features, improvements and bug fixes such as...) Upgraded to JAXB 2.3.0
w

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.3+-+Overhaul+of+Aggregator+EIP[Camel
2.3 - Overhaul of Aggregator EIP] +

Camel 2.3 - Overhaul of Aggregator EIP The Aggregator EIP needs an
overhaul in Camel to remedy a few new features, improvements and fix an
issue with using completion predicate and timeout. Current issues Build
on top of BatchProcessor which has to comple

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.3+-+ThreadPool+Configuration[Camel
2.3 - ThreadPool Configuration] +

Design Notes for ThreadPool Configuration CAMEL-1588
https://issues.apache.org/activemq/browse/CAMEL-1588 is the ticket for a
new and improved thread pool configuration for Apache Camel. Its
intended for Camel 2.3. Scope Camel uses thread pool in various

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.3.0+Release[Camel
2.3.0 Release] +

Camel 2.3.0 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.3.0 release which approx 276 issues resolved
(new features, improvements and bug fixes such as...) Overhauled
threading model and intr

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.4.0+Release[Camel
2.4.0 Release] +

Camel 2.4.0 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.4.0 release which approx 182 issues resolved
(new features, improvements and bug fixes such as...) Spring 3.0.3 is
now the default Spr

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.5.0+Release[Camel
2.5.0 Release] +

Camel 2.5.0 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.5.0 release which approx 300 issues resolved
(new features, improvements and bug fixes such as...) Added
suspend/resume operations to

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.6.0+Release[Camel
2.6.0 Release] +

Camel 2.6.0 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.6.0 release which approx 297 issues resolved
(new features, improvements and bug fixes such as...) Fixed issue in
OSGi with refreshing

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.7+-+Roadmap[Camel
2.7 - Roadmap] +

Camel 2.7 roadmap This is a roadmap which details the overall and major
goals for Camel 2.7. Fell free to discuss this at the Camel Mailing
Lists if you have ideas or feedback. The goals on this page was intended
to be introduced in Camel 3.0. After discu

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.7.0+Release[Camel
2.7.0 Release] +

Camel 2.7.0 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.7.0 release which approx 169 issues resolved
(new features, improvements and bug fixes such as...) The Camel 2.7.0
release has a numbe

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.7.1+Release[Camel
2.7.1 Release] +

Camel 2.7.1 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.7.1 patch release which approx 12 issues
resolved (improvements and bug fixes such as...) upgrade to pax-exam
1.2.4 upgrade to Jackson

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.7.2+Release[Camel
2.7.2 Release] +

Camel 2.7.2 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.7.2 patch release which approx 7 issues
resolved (improvements and bug fixes such as...) fixes and improvements
related to using Camel

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.7.3+Release[Camel
2.7.3 Release] +

Camel 2.7.3 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.7.3 patch release which approx 72 issues
resolved. Many issues reported by users and patches supplied have been
applied to make 2.7.3

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.7.4+Release[Camel
2.7.4 Release] +

Camel 2.7.4 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.7.4 patch release which 14 issues resolved.
Many issues reported by users and patches supplied have been applied to
make 2.7.4 as "sta

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.7.5+Release[Camel
2.7.5 Release] +

Camel 2.7.5 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.7.5 patch release which 44 issues resolved.
Many issues reported by users and patches supplied have been applied to
make 2.7.5 as "sta

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.8.0+Release[Camel
2.8.0 Release] +

Camel 2.8.0 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.8.0 release which approx 422 issues resolved
(new features, improvements and bug fixes such as...) Fixed the OGNL
support of Simple la

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.8.1+Release[Camel
2.8.1 Release] +

Camel 2.8.1 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.8.1 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 45 issues resolved. SOAP now supports multiple parameters.
CXF supports better with

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.8.2+Release[Camel
2.8.2 Release] +

Camel 2.8.2 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.8.2 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 105 issues resolved. SOAP now supports multiple parameters.
CXF supports better wit

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.8.3+Release[Camel
2.8.3 Release] +

Camel 2.8.3 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.8.3 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 60+ issues resolved. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apache.or

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.8.4+Release[Camel
2.8.4 Release] +

Camel 2.8.4 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.8.4 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 89 issues resolved. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apache.org

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.8.5+Release[Camel
2.8.5 Release] +

Camel 2.8.5 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.8.5 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 46 issues resolved. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apache.org

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.8.6+Release[Camel
2.8.6 Release] +

Camel 2.8.6 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.8.6 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 31 issues resolved. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apache.org

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.9+-+JMX+and+reducing+Spring+dependency[Camel
2.9 - JMX and reducing Spring dependency] +

Camel 2.9 - JMX and reducing Spring dependency This note covers the goal
for Camel 2.9 to reduce Spring dependency in camel-core and other
Components where Spring is not really needed. Background In camel-core
we support Spring JMX annotations when we enl

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.9.0+Release[Camel
2.9.0 Release] +

Camel 2.9.0 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.9.0 release which approx 497 issues resolved
(new features, improvements and bug fixes such as...) Introduced
ThreadPoolFactory with a

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.9.1+Release[Camel
2.9.1 Release] +

Camel 2.9.1 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.9.1 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 109 issues resolved. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apache.or

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.9.2+Release[Camel
2.9.2 Release] +

Camel 2.9.2 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.9.2 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 58 issues resolved. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apache.org

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.9.3+Release[Camel
2.9.3 Release] +

Camel 2.9.3 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.9.3 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 125 issues resolved. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apache.or

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.9.4+Release[Camel
2.9.4 Release] +

Camel 2.9.4 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.9.4 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 55 issues resolved. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apache.org

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.9.5+Release[Camel
2.9.5 Release] +

Camel 2.9.5 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.9.5 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 44 issues resolved. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apache.org

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.9.6+Release[Camel
2.9.6 Release] +

Camel 2.9.6 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.9.6 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 63 issues resolved. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apache.org

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.9.7+Release[Camel
2.9.7 Release] +

Camel 2.9.7 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.9.7 release which is mainly a bug fix
release with 14 issues resolved. For more details see the JIRA tickets
https://issues.apache.org

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.9.8+Release[Camel
2.9.8 Release] +

Camel 2.9.8 release
http://camel.apache.org/download.data/camel-box-v1.0-150x200.png New and
Noteworthy Welcome to the 2.9.8 release which is mainly a bug fix
release to address CVE-2013-4330
http://camel.apache.org/security-advisories.data/CVE-2013-4330.

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.x+-+Debugger+API[Camel
2.x - Debugger API] +

Camel 2.x - Debugger API Available as of Camel 2.4 There is a new
org.apache.camel.spi.Debugger API which allows 3rd party to attach a
debugger tooling to debug Exchanges in Camel routes. There is a default
implementation in camel-core as the org.apache.c

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+2.x+Speed+optimizations[Camel
2.x Speed optimizations] +

Camel 2.x Speed optimizations This design page is about how to optimize
and make Camel 2.x more performant. Source code We got an experiment
branch at Apache at:
https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/camel/sandbox/tuning-experiment/
https://svn.apache.org/repo

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+3.0+-+Ideas[Camel
3.0 - Ideas] +

Camel 3.0 Ideas Camel is now almost 6 years old and its second revision
camel-2.x is more than 4.5 years old already. Camel is extremely mature,
used in production by a large number of organizations from small to
large and even governments. We feel like

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+3.0+-+Introduce+an+API+for+components[Camel
3.0 - Introduce an API for components] +

Currently each component needs to depend on the camel-core. So it sucks
in a lot more than it really needs. The idea is to define a minimal API
that contains everything a typical component needs. This API should be
as independent of the camel implementati

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+3.0+-+Message+Store[Camel
3.0 - Message Store] +

The page intends to collect all ideas and proposals around the idea of a
Message Store as a architectural concept in Camel. No implementation has
started yet. You can participate by sharing your input here or post it
to the dev mailing list. For the initi

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+3.0+-+Roadmap[Camel
3.0 - Roadmap] +

Camel 3.0 Roadmap This page contains a summary of the ideas planned for
the camel-3.0.0 release. Tasks for camel-2.x (prepare) Improve the test
api for testing components (jwcarman) See CAMEL-6029
https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/CAMEL-6029. No matte

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+@+ApacheCon[Camel
@ ApacheCon] +

Camel @ ApacheCon This page is intended to collect material about Camel
and Camelists at ApacheCon http://www.apachecon.com/. These infos could
be used for organizing meetings. ApacheCon EU, 17.11.2014-23.11.2014
Webpage: http://events.linuxfoundation.org

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+and+SCR[Camel
and SCR] +

Working with Camel and SCR SCR stands for Service Component Runtime and
is an implementation of OSGi Declarative Services specification. SCR
enables any plain old Java object to expose and use OSGi services with
no boilerplate code. OSGi framework knows y

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+Boot[Camel
Boot] +

Camel Boot Camel lets you boot up a JVM process and configure Camel
nicely using whichever dependency injection framework you choose. For
each of the main dependency injection frameworks, Camel has a Main class
with a public static void run(String[] arg

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+Configuration+Utilities[Camel
Configuration Utilities] +

JSSE Utility The JSSE Utility, available as of 2.8, allows you to easily
configure aspects of the Java Secure Socket Extension
http://download.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/technotes/guides/security/jsse/JSSERefGuide.html
(JSSE) API in order to greatly simplif

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+CXF+Design[Camel
CXF Design] +

Camel CXF Design Integrating CXF into Camel Camel provides a component
API , after defined the endpoint URI format, we just need implement the
Camel component API by using CXF as a library to create the client and
server for camel-cxf component's consumer

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+Dot+Maven+Goal[Camel
Dot Maven Goal] +

camel:dot The camel:dot goal of the Camel Maven Plugin is used to
generate Visualisation diagrams for your Enterprise Integration
Patterns. It works like camel:embedded, it will boot up your Spring
configuration but it will only keep up for a few seconds.

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+DSL[Camel
DSL] +

The Camel DSL is a language that allows to configure the behaviour of
the Camel Routing Engine. It comes in two main flavours. The Java DSL
and the Spring XML Config. Both variants share the same functions though
the syntax is somewhat different. Language

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+Embedded+Maven+Goal[Camel
Embedded Maven Goal] +

camel:embedded The camel:embedded goal of the Camel Maven Plugin is used
to run your Camel Spring configurations in the same JVM as Maven, so it
should startup a bit faster than camel:run. Though sometimes we all get
the odd classpath issue; so sometimes

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+Endpoint+Questions[Camel
Endpoint Questions] +

Questions on using the various Camel Components and Endpoint
implementations

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+JAR+Dependencies[Camel
JAR Dependencies] +

Camel JAR Dependencies Camel core itself is lightweight and can run with
a few .jars. camel-core dependencies for Camel 2.0 or lower
commons-logging-api.jar - API for commons logging JAXB 2.1.x - XML stuff
- Is provided in the JDK core from Java 1.6 activ

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+JMX[Camel
JMX] +

Camel JMX Apache Camel has extensive support for JMX to allow you to
monitor and control the Camel managed objects with a JMX client. Camel
also provides a JMX component that allows you to subscribe to MBean
notifications. This page is about how to manage

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+Maven+Archetypes[Camel
Maven Archetypes] +

Camel Maven Archetypes Camel is distributed with the following
archetypes for Maven end users. Archetype Supported Archetype
Description camel-archetype-activemq This archetype is used to create a
new Maven project for Camel routes with Apache ActiveMQ em

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+Maven+Plugin[Camel
Maven Plugin] +

Camel Maven Plugin The Camel Maven Plugin
https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/camel/trunk/tooling/maven/camel-maven-plugin
allows you to run your Enterprise Integration Patterns using Spring for
Dependency Injection inside Maven along with being able to supp

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+Run+Maven+Goal[Camel
Run Maven Goal] +

camel:run The camel:run goal of the Camel Maven Plugin is used to run
your Camel Spring configurations in a forked JVM from Maven. A good
example application to get you started is the Spring Example. cd
examples/camel-example-spring mvn camel:run This mak

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+Security[Camel
Security] +

Camel Security Camel offers robust & comprehensive security on routes at
the Payload Level (XMLSecurity, Crypto) Component Level (Jetty, CXF,
Netty, MINA, CometD, JMS) Route Level (Shiro and Spring Security) For
more details on the various security option

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+Test[Camel
Test] +

Camel Test As a simple alternative to using CDI Testing, Spring Testing
or Guice the camel-test module was introduced so you can perform
powerful Testing of your Enterprise Integration Patterns easily. The
camel-test JAR is using JUnit. There is an altern

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel+Transport+for+CXF[Camel
Transport for CXF] +

What's the Camel Transport for CXF In CXF you offer or consume a
webservice by defining its address. The first part of the address
specifies the protocol to use. For example
address="http://localhost:9000" in an endpoint configuration means your
service w

Page: link:camel-xyz-release-template.html[Camel x.y.z Release
(template)] +

Camel x.y.z Release (currently in progress)
http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png New and Noteworthy
Welcome to the x.y.z release which approx XXX issues resolved (new
features, improvements and bug fixes such as...) highlighted issue fixed

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Camel-Core[Camel-Core] +

This page is work in progress. The layering is probably not yet correct
Camel-core is the basic module of apache camel. It contains the public
API and the Java DSL and several implementation packages. The most
important packages are: Package Name Descript

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/camel-eclipse[camel-eclipse] +

camel-eclipse Available as of Camel 2.3 The camel-eclipse is a component
which allows you to run Camel with Eclipse RCP. This component is needed
due Eclipse classloading challenges. The component is a specialized
Camel Pluggable Class Resolvers to remedy

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/camel-jboss[camel-jboss] +

camel-jboss Available as of Camel 2.1 The camel-jboss is a component
which allows you to run Camel inside JBoss Application Server. This
component is needed due JBoss classloading challenges. The component is
a specialized Camel Pluggable Class Resolvers

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/camel-zipkin[camel-zipkin] +

Available as of Camel 2.18 The camel-zipkin component is used for
tracing and timing incoming and outgoing Camel messages using zipkin
http://zipkin.io/. Events (span) are captured for incoming and outgoing
messages being sent to/from Camel. This means yo

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/CamelContext[CamelContext] +

CamelContext The CamelContext
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/CamelContext.html
represents a single Camel routing rulebase. You use the CamelContext in
a similar way to the Spring ApplicationContext http://static.

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Can+I+get+commercial+support[Can
I get commercial support] +

Can I get commercial support? Absolutely, see our Support page for more
details

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Can+I+use+Camel+on+Java+1.4[Can
I use Camel on Java 1.4] +

Can I use Camel on Java 1.4 Apache Camel was developed to run on Java
1.5 or later to take advantage of the new language features like
generics and annotations together with using the Java 5 concurrency
code. Starting with version 2.7.0, only Java 1.6 is

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Cassandra[Cassandra] +

Camel Cassandra Component Available as of Camel 2.15 Apache Cassandra
http://cassandra.apache.org is an open source NoSQL database designed to
handle large amounts on commodity hardware. Like Amazon's DynamoDB,
Cassandra has a peer-to-peer and master-le

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Castor[Castor] +

Castor Available as of Camel 2.1 Castor is a Data Format which uses the
Castor XML library http://www.castor.org/ to unmarshal an XML payload
into Java objects or to marshal Java objects into an XML payload. As
usually you can use either Java DSL or Sprin

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/CDI[CDI] +

Camel CDI The Camel CDI component provides auto-configuration for Apache
Camel using CDI as dependency injection framework based on
convention-over-configuration. It auto-detects Camel routes available in
the application and provides beans for common Came

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/CDI+Testing[CDI
Testing] +

CDI Testing Testing http://camel.apache.org/testing.html is a crucial
part of any development or integration work. In case you're using the
Camel CDI integration for your applications, you have a number of
options to ease testing. You can use CDI for IoC

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/CEP[CEP] +

Camel CEP Complex Event Processing
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Complex_event_processing or Event Stream
Processing http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Event_stream_processing are
approaches of processing streams of events, usually from multiple
sources. One app

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Chronicle+Engine[Chronicle
Engine] +

Chronicle Engine Component Available as of Camel 2.18 The chronicle
component let you leverage the power of OpenHFT's Chronicle-Engine
https://github.com/OpenHFT/Chronicle-Engine in Apache Camel. Maven users
will need to add the following dependency to

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Chunk[Chunk] +

Chunk Available as of Camel 2.15 The chunk: component allows for
processing a message using a Chunk
http://www.x5software.com/chunk/examples/ChunkExample?loc=en_US
template. This can be ideal when using Templating to generate responses
for requests. Maven

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Claim+Check[Claim
Check] +

Claim Check The Claim Check
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/StoreInLibrary.html from
the EIP patterns allows you to replace message content with a claim
check (a unique key), which can be used to retrieve the message content
at a later time.

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Class[Class] +

Class Component Available as of Camel 2.4 The class: component binds
beans to Camel message exchanges. It works in the same way as the Bean
component but instead of looking up beans from a Registry it creates the
bean based on the class name. URI format c

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Classloader+issue+of+servicemix-camel+component[Classloader
issue of servicemix-camel component] +

We got some classloader issue about the camel processor which after the
JBI endpoint recently, so I add this entry for some explanation about
it. Here is a good code example to demo the thread context classloader
in different processor after the jbi endpo

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Clustering+and+loadbalancing[Clustering
and loadbalancing] +

Camel proposes different solutions to allow your solution to be
scalable, to distribute the load between different instances. The choice
will depend on how you will deploy/package Camel (standalone mode,
embedded in a J2EE or OSGI server, ...) and how the

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/CMIS[CMIS] +

CMIS Component Available as of Camel 2.11 The cmis component uses the
Apache Chemistry http://chemistry.apache.org/java/opencmis.html client
API and allows you to add/read nodes to/from a CMIS compliant content
repositories. URI Format cmis://cmisServerUr

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Code+Walkthrough[Code
Walkthrough] +

Code Walkthrough The main module to get to grips with is the camel-core
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/index.html
module which defines the core APIs and the DSL. Often developers pick up
libraries by looking at test cases. Probab

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Cometd[Cometd] +

Cometd Component The cometd: component is a transport for working with
the jetty http://www.mortbay.org/jetty implementation of the
cometd/bayeux protocol
http://docs.codehaus.org/display/JETTY/Cometd+%28aka+Bayeux%29. Using
this component in combination

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Commercial+Camel+Offerings[Commercial
Camel Offerings] +

Commercial Camel Offerings Apache Camel is a widely used project. As
such, several companies have built products and services around Camel.
This page is dedicated to providing descriptions of those offerings and
links to more information. Companies are de

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Common+Problems[Common
Problems] +

Common Problems that people have when riding the Camel

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Community[Community] +

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Competing+Consumers[Competing
Consumers] +

Competing Consumers Camel supports the Competing Consumers
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/CompetingConsumers.html
from the EIP patterns using a few different components.
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/img/CompetingConsumers.gif

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Component[Component] +

Components A Component is essentially a factory of Endpoint instances.
You can explicitly configure Component instances and add them to a
CamelContext in an IoC container like Spring or Guice, or they can be
auto-discovered using URIs. Components

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Component+List[Component
List] +

Component / ArtifactId / URI Description AHC / camel-ahc
ahc:http[s]://hostName[:port][/resourceUri][?options] To call external
HTTP services using Async Http Client
https://github.com/AsyncHttpClient/async-http-client AHC-WS /
camel-ahc-ws ahc-ws[s]://ho

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Component+List+External[Component
List External] +

Component / ArtifactId / URI License Description ActiveMQ /
activemq-camel activemq:[queue|topic:]destinationName Apache For JMS
Messaging with Apache ActiveMQ. http://activemq.apache.org/ ActiveMQ
Broker http://activemq.apache.org/broker-camel-component.

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Component+List+Grouped[Component
List Grouped] +

An informal grouping of Camel components. This list was refined from the
main components page in support of establishing information for the
following poster: The Apache Camel Components Poster (PDF
http://gliesian.com/camel/ApacheCamelComponents.pdf, PDF

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/ComponentConfiguration[ComponentConfiguration] +

ComponentConfiguration API As of Camel 2.12 the new
ComponentConfiguration API provides a mechanism for tools (command line,
IDE, web based) to introspect the available Camel components and
introspect what configuration parameters are available on the com

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Components[Components] +

Components Included Camel includes the following Component
implementations via URIs. Make sure to read How Do I Configure
Endpoints? to learn more about configuring endpoints. For example how to
refer to beans in the Registry or how to use raw values for

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Composed+Message+Processor[Composed
Message Processor] +

Composed Message Processor The Composed Message Processor
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/DistributionAggregate.html
from the EIP patterns allows you to process a composite message by
splitting it up, routing the sub-messages to appropriate d

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Configuring+Camel[Configuring
Camel] +

How do I configure endpoints How do I import routes from other XML files
How do I add a component

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Configuring+route+startup+ordering+and+autostartup[Configuring
route startup ordering and autostartup] +

Configuring routes startup ordering and autostartup Available as of
Camel 2.1 Camel now supports configuring two aspects: auto startup order
of starting routes Configuring whether Camel should be auto started or
not in XML DSL The old option shouldStartCo

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Console+Example[Console
Example] +

Console Example Available as of Camel 2.10 This example is located in
the Camel distribution at examples/camel-example-console. This is a
beginner's example that demonstrates how to get started with Apache
Camel. In this example we integrate with the cons

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Constant[Constant] +

Constant Expression Language The Constant Expression Language is really
just a way to specify constant strings as a type of expression. Example
usage The setHeader element of the Spring DSL can utilize a constant
expression like: <route> <from uri="seda:a

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Consul+Component[Consul
Component] +

Consul https://www.consul.io/ is a distributed, highly available,
datacenter-aware, service discovery and configuration system. Maven
users will need to add the following dependency to their pom.xml for
this component. <dependency> <groupId>org.apache.ca

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Content+Based+Router[Content
Based Router] +

Content Based Router The Content Based Router
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/ContentBasedRouter.html
from the EIP patterns allows you to route messages to the correct
destination based on the contents of the message exchanges.
http://www.ent

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Content+Based+Routing+on+Camel[Content
Based Routing on Camel] +

Content Based Routing on Camel Content based routing (CBR) is considered
as a necessary technology for service integration and has been widely
used in current enterprise integration software. XML is a intermediary
message type which provides the mediation

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Content+Enricher[Content
Enricher] +

Content Enricher Camel supports the Content Enricher
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/DataEnricher.html from the
EIP patterns using a Message Translator, an arbitrary Processor in the
routing logic, or using the enrich DSL element to enrich th

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Content+Filter[Content
Filter] +

Content Filter Camel supports the Content Filter
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/ContentFilter.html from the
EIP patterns using one of the following mechanisms in the routing logic
to transform content from the inbound message. Message Transl

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Context[Context] +

Context Component Available as of Camel 2.7 Deprecated do NOT use The
context component allows you to create new Camel Components from a
CamelContext with a number of routes which is then treated as a black
box, allowing you to refer to the local endpoi

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Continuous+integration+builds[Continuous
integration builds] +

CI builds using Jenkins Continuous integration builds for Apache Camel
have been set up at https://builds.apache.org/
https://builds.apache.org/. More information about using Jenkins at
Apache can be found at http://wiki.apache.org/general/Jenkins http://

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Contributing[Contributing] +

See the up-to-date documentation at the Apache Camel site on github:
https://github.com/apache/camel/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md
https://github.com/apache/camel/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/ControlBus[ControlBus] +

ControlBus The Control Bus http://www.eaipatterns.com/ControlBus.html
from the EIP patterns allows for the integration system to be monitored
and managed from within the framework.
http://www.eaipatterns.com/img/ControlBus.gif Use a Control Bus to
manage

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/ControlBus+Component[ControlBus
Component] +

ControlBus Component Available as of Camel 2.11 The controlbus:
component provides easy management of Camel applications based on the
Control Bus EIP pattern. For example, by sending a message to an
Endpoint you can control the lifecycle of routes, or gat

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/convertBodyTo[convertBodyTo] +

Convert the message body to the given class type . To do so camel uses a
hierarchy of TypeConverters Syntax Java convertBodyTo(Class type [,
String charset]) Spring XML <convertBodyTo type="<String>"
[charset="<String>"] > Parameters Parameter Type Descri

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Cookbook[Cookbook] +

This document describes various recipes for working with Camel Bean
Integration describes how to work with beans and Camel in a loosely
coupled way so that your beans do not have to depend on any Camel APIs
Annotation Based Expression Language binds expre

Page: link:copy-of-camel-2195-release-template.html[Copy of Camel 2.19.5
Release (template)] +

Camel 2.19.5 Release (currently in progress)
http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png New and Noteworthy
Welcome to the x.y.z release which approx XXX issues resolved (new
features, improvements and bug fixes such as...) highlighted issue fixed

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Correlation+Identifier[Correlation
Identifier] +

Correlation Identifier Camel supports the Correlation Identifier
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/CorrelationIdentifier.html
from the EIP patterns by getting or setting a header on a Message. When
working with the ActiveMQ or JMS components th

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Couchbase[Couchbase] +

Available as of Camel Extra 2.13 The camel-couchbase component supports
the interaction to the NoSQL document database Couchbase
http://www.couchbase.com via the couchbase-client
http://www.couchbase.com/communities/java/getting-started library.
Couchbase

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/CouchDB[CouchDB] +

Camel CouchDB component Available as of Camel 2.11 The couchdb:
component allows you to treat CouchDB http://couchdb.apache.org/
instances as a producer or consumer of messages. Using the lightweight
LightCouch API, this camel component has the following

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Creating+a+new+Camel+Component[Creating
a new Camel Component] +

Creating a new Camel Component If you want to create your own version of
the Camel Component you can use the Camel Maven Archetypes. mvn
archetype:generate \ -DarchetypeGroupId=org.apache.camel.archetypes \
-DarchetypeArtifactId=camel-archetype-component

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Creating+a+new+Spring+based+Camel+Route[Creating
a new Spring based Camel Route] +

Creating a new Spring based Camel Route If you want to create your own
version of the Spring Example you can use the maven archetype. mvn
archetype:generate \ -DarchetypeGroupId=org.apache.camel.archetypes \
-DarchetypeArtifactId=camel-archetype-spring \

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/CronScheduledRoutePolicy[CronScheduledRoutePolicy] +

CronScheduledRoutePolicy Available as of Camel version 2.6
CronScheduledRoutePolicy is a ScheduledRoutePolicy that facilitates
route activation, de-activation, suspension and resumption of routes
based on a Quartz CronTrigger. Maven users will need to add

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Crypto[Crypto] +

Crypto Available as of Camel 2.3 PGP Available as of Camel 2.9 The
Crypto Data Format integrates the Java Cryptographic Extension into
Camel, allowing simple and flexible encryption and decryption of
messages using Camel's familiar marshall and unmarshal

Page: link:crypto-digital-signatures.html[Crypto (Digital Signatures)] +

Crypto component for Digital Signatures Available as of Camel 2.3 With
Camel cryptographic endpoints and Java's Cryptographic extension it is
easy to create Digital Signatures for Exchanges. Camel provides a pair
of flexible endpoints which get used in co

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/CSV[CSV] +

CSV The CSV Data Format uses Apache Commons CSV
http://commons.apache.org/proper/commons-csv/ to handle CSV payloads
(Comma Separated Values) such as those exported/imported by Excel. As of
Camel 2.15.0, it now uses the Apache Commons CSV 1.1 http://commo

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Custom+DataFormat[Custom
DataFormat] +

Custom DataFormat You can use your custom Data Format implementation
with Camel. All you have to do is to implement the DataFormat interface.
For example in the following we will implement a reverse data format as
shown below: \{snippet:id=e2|title=Custom

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Customizing+XML[Customizing
XML] +

Customizing the XML The Xml Configuration is defined by JAXB POJOs in
the org.apache.camel.model.* package and its sub packages. If you are
adding a new class you must edit the jaxb.index file to add the class
name! (One day we could hopefully have these

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/CXF[CXF] +

CXF Component When using CXF as a consumer, the CXF Bean Component
allows you to factor out how message payloads are received from their
processing as a RESTful or SOAP web service. This has the potential of
using a multitude of transports to consume web

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/CXF+Async+Example[CXF
Async Example] +

CXF Async Example This example shows how to use the new feature in Camel
2.1 which is support for non blocking asynchronous producers by ToAsync.
Currently camel-jetty implements this to the fullest as its
JettyHttpProducer supports non blocking request/r

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/CXF+Bean+Component[CXF
Bean Component] +

CXF Bean Component The cxfbean: component allows other Camel endpoints
to send exchange and invoke Web service bean objects. Currently, it only
supports JAX-RS and JAX-WS (new to Camel 2.1) annotated service beans.
CxfBeanEndpoint is a ProcessorEndpoint s

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/CXF+Example[CXF
Example] +

CXF Example CXF example for routing messages with different transports
The Camel CXF example
http://svn.apache.org/viewvc/camel/trunk/examples/camel-example-cxf/src/main/java/org/apache/camel/example/cxf/httptojms/CamelCxfExample.java?view=markup
is a dem

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/CXF+Example+OSGi[CXF
Example OSGi] +

CXF Example OSGi Available as of Camel 2.8 This example uses Spring DM
for OSGi. There is another CXF Example OSGi Blueprint that uses
Blueprint. A simple example which receives web service calls (via a CXF
consumer, using bean binding) and writes these r

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/CXF+Example+OSGi+Blueprint[CXF
Example OSGi Blueprint] +

CXF Example OSGi Blueprint Available as of Camel 2.8 This example uses
OSGi Blueprint for OSGi. There is another CXF Example OSGi that uses
Spring-DM. A simple example which receives web service calls (via a CXF
consumer, using bean binding) and writes th

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/CXF+Proxy+Example[CXF
Proxy Example] +

CXF Proxy Example This example is located in the
examples/camel-example-cxf-proxy directory of the Camel distribution.
There is a README.txt file with instructions how to run it. If you use
Maven then you can easily run it from the command line using: mvn

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/CXF+Tomcat+Example[CXF
Tomcat Example] +

CXF Tomcat Example Available as of Camel 2.5 This example is located in
the examples/camel-example-cxf-tomcat directory of the Camel
distribution. There is a README.txt file with instructions how to run
it. If you use maven then you can easily package the

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/CXFRS[CXFRS] +

CXFRS Component When using CXF as a consumer, the CXF Bean Component
allows you to factor out how message payloads are received from their
processing as a RESTful or SOAP web service. This has the potential of
using a multitude of transports to consume we

[[d]]
[[index-D]]D
++++++++++++

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Data+Format[Data
Format] +

Data Format Camel supports a pluggable DataFormat to allow messages to
be marshalled to and from binary or text formats to support a kind of
Message Translator. The following data formats are currently supported:
Data Format List And related is the follow

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Data+Format+List[Data
Format List] +

Standard JVM object marshalling Serialization String Object marshalling
Avro Boon Hessian JSON Protobuf YAML Object/XML marshalling Castor JAXB
XmlBeans XStream JiBX Jackson XML Object/XML/Webservice marshalling SOAP
Direct JSON / XML marshalling XmlJson

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Database[Database] +

Database Camel can work with databases in a number of different ways.
This document tries to outline the most common approaches. Database
endpoints Camel provides a number of different endpoints for working
with databases JPA for working with hibernate, o

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/DataFormat+Component[DataFormat
Component] +

Data Format Component Available as of Camel 2.12 The dataformat:
component allows to use Data Format as a Camel Component. URI format
dataformat:name:(marshal|unmarshal)[?options] Where name is the name of
the Data Format. And then followed by the operati

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/DataSet[DataSet] +

DataSet Component Testing Summary Include The DataSet component provides
a mechanism to easily perform load & soak testing of your system. It
works by allowing you to create DataSet instances
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/ap

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Db4o[Db4o] +

Db4o Component Available as of Camel 2.5 The db4o: component allows you
to work with db4o http://www.db4o.com NoSQL database. The camel-db4o
library is provided by the Camel Extra
http://code.google.com/p/camel-extra/ project which hosts all *GPL
related

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Dead+Letter+Channel[Dead
Letter Channel] +

Dead Letter Channel Camel supports the Dead Letter Channel
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/DeadLetterChannel.html from
the EIP patterns using the DeadLetterChannel
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/proc

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Debugger[Debugger] +

Debugger Available as of Camel 2.6 Camel Debugger is much related to
Tracer, in fact they are sisters. Debugger is a enhanced tracer with a
debugger framework so that tooling can be developed to easily monitor
Camel routes, trace messages and set breakpoi

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/DefaultErrorHandler[DefaultErrorHandler] +

DefaultErrorHandler This is the new default error handler in Camel 2.0
onwards. It has the same power as the Dead Letter Channel, however it
does not support a dead letter queue, which is the only difference
between the two of them. The DefaultErrorHandle

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Delay+Interceptor[Delay
Interceptor] +

Delay Interceptor Available in Camel 1.5 The Delay interceptor is an
route interceptor that is used for slowing processing of messages down.
This allows you to enable this interceptor and set a fixed amount of
delay between each step a message passes in t

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Delayer[Delayer] +

Delayer The Delayer Pattern allows you to delay the delivery of messages
to some destination. The expression is a value in millis to wait from
the current time, so the expression should just be 3000. However you can
use a long value for a fixed value to i

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Dependency+Injection[Dependency
Injection] +

Dependency Injection Dependency Injection or Inversion of Control is a
pattern where dependencies of an object are injected into the object
without the object being too aware of how the injection is performed.
The two most popular Dependency Injection lib

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Design+Notes[Design
Notes] +

The following section contains design notes of the Apache Camel
components

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Detour[Detour] +

Detour The Detour
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/Detour.html from the EIP
patterns allows you to send messages through additional steps if a
control condition is met. It can be useful for turning on extra
validation, testing, debugging code

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Developers[Developers] +

Developers The following section contains developer related links for
Apache Camel

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Direct[Direct] +

Direct Component The direct: component provides direct, synchronous
invocation of any consumers when a producer sends a message exchange.
This endpoint can be used to connect existing routes in the same camel
context. The SEDA component provides asynchron

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Direct-VM[Direct-VM] +

Direct VM Component Available as of Camel 2.10 The direct-vm: component
provides direct, synchronous invocation of any consumers in the JVM when
a producer sends a message exchange. This endpoint can be used to
connect existing routes in the same camel co

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Disruptor[Disruptor] +

Disruptor Component Available as of Camel 2.12 The disruptor: component
provides asynchronous SEDA http://www.eecs.harvard.edu/~mdw/proj/seda/
behavior much as the standard SEDA Component, but utilizes a Disruptor
https://github.com/LMAX-Exchange/disrupto

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/DNS[DNS] +

DNS Available as of Camel 2.7 This is an additional component for Camel
to run DNS queries, using DNSJava. The component is a thin layer on top
of DNSJava http://www.xbill.org/dnsjava/. The component offers the
following operations: ip, to resolve a domai

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Docker[Docker] +

Camel Docker component Available as of Camel 2.15 Camel component for
communicating with Docker. The Docker Camel component leverages the
docker-java https://github.com/docker-java/docker-java via the Docker
Remote API https://docs.docker.com/reference/ap

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Documentation[Documentation] +

Documentation Other Sources of Documentation and Information There are
several companies that provide extra documentation, examples, tutorials,
etc... that users may find useful. See the Commercial Camel Offerings
page for more details. Also, many users h

Page: link:does-camel-work-on-ibms-jdk.html[Does Camel work on IBM's
JDK?] +

Does Camel work on IBM's JDK? Yes, we've tested Camel with IBM's JDK on
the AIX and Linux platforms. There are a few things to look out for
though Exception using camel-http You may get a
sun.io.MalformedInputException when using camel-http on IBM's JDK.

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Download[Download] +

Latest Releases http://camel.apache.org/images/camel-box-small.png Grab
these releases while they are hot! The latest release for Camel 2.20.x
is Camel 2.20.2 Release. The latest release for Camel 2.19.x is Camel
2.19.4 Release. Camel versions 2.18.x and

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Download+Archives[Download
Archives] +

Download archives You can use the Apache Archives to download all the
Camel releases. http://archive.apache.org/dist/camel/apache-camel/
http://archive.apache.org/dist/camel/apache-camel/ - All release since
Camel became a top level Apache project http://

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Dozer[Dozer] +

Dozer The dozer: component provides the ability to map between Java
beans using the Dozer http://camel.apache.org/dozer-type-conversion.html
mapping framework since Camel 2.15.0. Camel also supports the ability to
trigger Dozer mappings as a type convert

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Dozer+Type+Conversion[Dozer
Type Conversion] +

Dozer Type Conversion. Dozer
http://dozer.sourceforge.net/documentation/about.html is a fast and
flexible framework for mapping back and forth between Java Beans.
Coupled with Camel's automatic type conversion, it's a formidable tool
for dealing object to

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Dropbox[Dropbox] +

Camel Dropbox component Available as of Camel 2.14 The dropbox:
component allows you to treat Dropbox https://www.dropbox.com remote
folders as a producer or consumer of messages. Using the Dropbox Java
Core API http://dropbox.github.io/dropbox-sdk-java/a

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/DSL[DSL] +

DSL Camel uses a Java Domain Specific Language or DSL for creating
Enterprise Integration Patterns or Routes in a variety of
domain-specific languages (DSL) as listed below. Java DSL - A Java based
DSL using the fluent builder style. Spring XML - A XML ba

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/DSL+Function+Template[DSL
Function Template] +

Use this as the basis for a wiki page describing a DSL function
<<description>> Syntax Java <<Java Syntax1> Spring XML <<Spring xml
Syntax>> Parameters Parameter Type Description Examples Example1 <<
example description >> <<spring xml example>> <<i

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Durable+Subscriber[Durable
Subscriber] +

Durable Subscriber Camel supports the Durable Subscriber
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/DurableSubscription.html
from the EIP patterns using the JMS component which supports publish &
subscribe using Topics with support for non-durable and d

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Dynamic+Router[Dynamic
Router] +

Dynamic Router The Dynamic Router
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/DynamicRouter.html from the
EIP patterns allows you to route messages while avoiding the dependency
of the router on all possible destinations while maintaining its
efficiency.

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/DynamicRouter+Annotation[DynamicRouter
Annotation] +

@DynamicRouter Annotation As of Camel 2.5.0 we now support the use of
@DynamicRouter on a bean method to easily create a Dynamic Router using
a Java method. Simple Example using @Consume and @DynamicRouter package
com.acme.foo; public class RouterBean \{ @

[[e]]
[[index-E]]E
++++++++++++

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/EDI[EDI] +

EDI DataFormat We encourage end users to look at the Smooks
http://milyn.codehaus.org/Home which supports EDI and Camel natively.

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Ehcache[Ehcache] +

Ehcache Component Available as of Camel 2.18.x The ehcache component
enables you to perform caching operations using Ehcache 3 as the Cache
Implementation. This component supports producer and event based
consumer endpoints. The Cache consumer is an event

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/EIP[EIP] +

Enterprise Integration Patterns

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/EJB[EJB] +

EJB Component Available as of Camel 2.4 The ejb: component binds EJBs to
Camel message exchanges. Maven users will need to add the following
dependency to their pom.xml for this component: <dependency>
<groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId> <artifactId>camel

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/EL[EL] +

EL Camel supports the unified JSP and JSF Expression Language via the
JUEL http://juel.sourceforge.net/ to allow an Expression or Predicate to
be used in the DSL or Xml Configuration. For example you could use EL
inside a Message Filter in XML <route> <fr

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/ElasticSearch[ElasticSearch] +

ElasticSearch Component Available as of Camel 2.11 The ElasticSearch
component allows you to interface with an ElasticSearch
http://elasticsearch.org server. Maven users will need to add the
following dependency to their pom.xml for this component: <depen

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/ElSql[ElSql] +

ElSql Component Available as of Camel 2.16 The elsql: component is an
extension to the existing SQL Component that uses ElSql
https://github.com/OpenGamma/ElSql to define the SQL queries. This
component uses spring-jdbc behind the scenes for the actual S

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Endpoint[Endpoint] +

Endpoints Camel supports the Message Endpoint pattern using the Endpoint
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/Endpoint.html
interface. Endpoints are usually created by a Component and Endpoints
are usually referred to

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Endpoint+Annotations[Endpoint
Annotations] +

Endpoint Annotations As of Camel 2.12 you can annotate Endpoint and
Consumer classes so that their configuration documentation can be
automatically generated by the camel-package-maven-plugin (rather like
maven plugin goals get their parameters documented

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Endpoint+See+Also[Endpoint
See Also] +

See Also Configuring Camel Component Endpoint Getting Started

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/EndpointCompleter[EndpointCompleter] +

EndpointCompleter As of Camel 2.12 the EndpointCompleter
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/spi/EndpointCompleter.html
API is an optional SPI interface for Component implementors. It provides
a completion hook; rathe

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Enterprise+Integration+Patterns[Enterprise
Integration Patterns] +

Enterprise Integration Patterns Camel supports most of the Enterprise
Integration Patterns http://www.eaipatterns.com/toc.html from the
excellent book by Gregor Hohpe
http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/search-handle-url/105-9796798-8100401?%5Fencoding=UTF8

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Error+Handler[Error
Handler] +

Error Handler Camel supports pluggable ErrorHandler
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/processor/ErrorHandler.html
strategies to deal with errors processing an Event Driven Consumer. An
alternative is to specify the

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Error+handling+in+Camel[Error
handling in Camel] +

Error handling in Camel Error handling in Camel can roughly be separated
into two distinct types: non transactional transactional Where non
transactional is the most common type that is enabled out-of-the-box and
handled by Camel itself. The transaction t

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Esper[Esper] +

Esper The Esper component supports the Esper Library
http://esper.codehaus.org for Event Stream Processing. The camel-esper
library is provided by the Camel Extra
http://code.google.com/p/camel-extra/ project which hosts all *GPL
related components for Ca

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Etcd[Etcd] +

Etcd Component Etcd https://coreos.com/etcd/ is a distributed key value
store that provides a reliable way to store data across a cluster of
machines. Maven users will need to add the following dependency to their
pom.xml for this component. <dependenc

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/ETL[ETL] +

Extract Transform Load (ETL) The ETL
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extract,_transform,_load (Extract,
Transform, Load) is a mechanism for loading data into systems or
databases using some kind of Data Format from a variety of sources;
often files then usin

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/ETL+Example[ETL
Example] +

Extract Transform Load (ETL) Example The ETL (Extract, Transform, Load)
example shows how to load data into a database using Camel. In this
example we will poll for files, transform them and then store them in
the database via the JPA component. Overview

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Event+Driven+Consumer[Event
Driven Consumer] +

Event Driven Consumer Camel supports the Event Driven Consumer
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/EventDrivenConsumer.html
from the EIP patterns. The default consumer model is event based (i.e.
asynchronous) as this means that the Camel containe

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Event+Message[Event
Message] +

Event Message Camel supports the Event Message
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/EventMessage.html from the
EIP patterns by supporting the Exchange Pattern on a Message which can
be set to InOnly to indicate a oneway event message. Camel Compon

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/EventAdmin[EventAdmin] +

EventAdmin component Available in Camel 2.6 The eventadmin component can
be used in an OSGi environment to receive OSGi EventAdmin events and
process them. Dependencies Maven users need to add the following
dependency to their pom.xml <dependency> <groupI

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/EventNotifier+to+log+details+about+all+sent+Exchanges[EventNotifier
to log details about all sent Exchanges] +

EventNotifier to log details about all sent Exchanges If you want to log
information all time taken to send and receive replies when sending to
external endpoints, then you can leverage the EventNotifier in Camel. It
allows you to subscribe to events and

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Examples[Examples] +

Examples Once you have read about Getting Started and looked at the
Enterprise Integration Patterns, you might want to try out some
examples. Before starting to work on example you may want to check the
requirements for working with Camel. Then Running Ex

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Exception+-+BeanDefinitionStoreException[Exception
- BeanDefinitionStoreException] +

BeanDefinitionStoreException If you use ActiveMQ 5.x that ships with
Camel 1.x and you upgrade it to use Camel 2.0 you can get an exception
while starting. ERROR: java.lang.RuntimeException: Failed to execute
start task. Reason: org.springframework.beans.

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Exception+-+javax.naming.NoInitialContextException[Exception
- javax.naming.NoInitialContextException] +

Exception: javax.naming.NoInitialContextException If you try to use
Camel without Spring using code something like this CamelContext context
= new DefaultCamelContext(); context.addRoutes(new MyRouteBuilder());
context.start(); You might get an exception

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Exception+-+org.apache.camel.NoSuchEndpointException[Exception
- org.apache.camel.NoSuchEndpointException] +

Exception: org.apache.camel.NoSuchEndpointException The usual cause for
this Exception is a missing component JAR on the classpath. The
exception detail message will tell you what the missing component is.
You can solve the issue by adding the required JA

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Exception+-+org.xml.sax.SAXParseException[Exception
- org.xml.sax.SAXParseException] +

Exception: org.xml.sax.SAXParseException The reference to entity "..."
must end with the ';' delimiter. In the URIs used for specifying Camel
endpoints, the & is used to separate the parameters. However, & also is
a reserved character in XML. Because of t

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Exception+Clause[Exception
Clause] +

Exception Clause You can use the Exception Clause in the Java DSL to
specify the error handling you require on a per exception type basis
using the onException() method. To get started we give quick sample
before digging into how it works. For example i

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Exchange[Exchange] +

Message Exchange To support various message exchange patterns like one
way Event Message and Request Reply messages Camel uses an Exchange
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/Exchange.html
interface which has a patter

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Exchange+Pattern[Exchange
Pattern] +

Exchange Pattern There are many different Message Exchange Patterns you
can use in messaging. This concept is also demonstrated in WSDL and
JBI's MEPs. From there Enterprise Integration Patterns the common
examples are Request Reply Event Message (or one

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/ExchangeProperty[ExchangeProperty] +

ExchangeProperty Expression Language The ExchangeProperty Expression
Language allows you to extract values of named exchange properties.
Example Usage The recipientList element of the Spring DSL can utilize an
exchangeProperty expression. In this example,

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Exec[Exec] +

Exec component Available in Camel 2.3 The exec component can be used to
execute system commands. Dependencies Maven users need to add the
following dependency to their pom.xml <dependency>
<groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId> <artifactId>camel-exec</artifa

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Expression[Expression] +

Expressions Expressions and Predicates can then be used to create the
various Enterprise Integration Patterns in the DSL or Xml Configuration
like the Recipient List. To support dynamic rules Camel supports
pluggable Expression http://camel.apache.org/mav

[[f]]
[[index-F]]F
++++++++++++

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Facebook[Facebook] +

Facebook Component Available as of Camel 2.12 The Facebook component
provides access to all of the Facebook APIs accessible using Facebook4J
http://facebook4j.org/en/index.html. It allows producing messages to
retrieve, add, and delete posts, likes, comme

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/FAQ[FAQ] +

FAQ Here are a list of commonly asked questions and answers. If you have
any questions which are not on this list, please talk to us on the
Forums. We welcome contributions
http://camel.apache.org/contributing.html and this entire website is a
wiki that y

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/File+Language[File
Language] +

File Expression Language From Camel 2.2: the file language is now merged
with Simple language which means you can use all the file syntax
directly within the simple language. The File Expression Language is an
extension to the Simple language, adding file

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/File2[File2] +

File Component The File component provides access to file systems,
allowing files to be processed by any other Camel Components or messages
from other components to be saved to disk. URI format
file:directoryName[?options] or file://directoryName[?options

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Fine+Grained+Control+Over+a+Channel[Fine
Grained Control Over a Channel] +

Introduction When sending an Exchange to an Endpoint you can either use
a Route or a ProducerTemplate. This works fine in many scenarios.
However you may need to guarantee that an exchange is delivered to the
same endpoint that you delivered a previous ex

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Flatpack[Flatpack] +

Flatpack Component The Flatpack component supports fixed width and
delimited file parsing via the FlatPack library
http://flatpack.sourceforge.net. Notice: This component only supports
consuming from flatpack files to Object model. You can not (yet) write

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Flatpack+DataFormat[Flatpack
DataFormat] +

Flatpack DataFormat The Flatpack component ships with the Flatpack data
format that can be used to format between fixed width or delimited text
messages to a List of rows as Map. marshal = from List<Map<String,
Object>> to OutputStream (can be converted t

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Flink[Flink] +

Apache Flink Component Available as of Camel 2.18 This documentation
page covers the https://flink.apache.org component for the Apache Camel.
The camel-flink component provides a bridge between Camel connectors and
Flink tasks. This Camel Flink connector

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Fluent+Builders[Fluent
Builders] +

Fluent Builders Camel provides fluent builders for creating routing and
mediation rules using a type-safe IDE friendly way which provides smart
completion and is refactoring safe. For more information see Java Domain
Specific Language Xml Configuration

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/FOP[FOP] +

FOP Component Available as of Camel 2.10 The FOP component allows you to
render a message into different output formats using Apache FOP
http://xmlgraphics.apache.org/fop/index.html. Maven users will need to
add the following dependency to their pom.xml f

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/FreeMarker[FreeMarker] +

FreeMarker The freemarker: component allows for processing a message
using a FreeMarker http://freemarker.org/ template. This can be ideal
when using Templating to generate responses for requests. Maven users
will need to add the following dependency to t

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/from[from] +

Starting point for a Camel Route that starts a route with a given
Endpoint . The Endpoint can be from one of the many Camel Components.
The component creates Camel Exchanges from their respective Sources and
puts them into the route. Syntax Java from(Stri

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/FTP[FTP] +

FTP2

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/FTP+Example[FTP
Example] +

FTP Example Available as of Camel 2.11 This example is located in the
examples/camel-example-ftp directory of the Camel distribution. There is
a README.txt file with instructions how to run it. About This example
demonstrates how Camel can upload and down

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/FTP2[FTP2] +

FTP/SFTP/FTPS Component This component provides access to remote file
systems over the FTP and SFTP protocols. Maven users will need to add
the following dependency to their pom.xml for this component:
<dependency> <groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId> <art

[[g]]
[[index-G]]G
++++++++++++

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/GAE[GAE] +

Camel Components for Google App Engine This component is deprecated and
will be removed form Camel 2.18 onwards. A good starting point for using
Camel on GAE is the Tutorial for Camel on Google App Engine The OAuth
tutorial demonstrates how to implement O

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Ganglia[Ganglia] +

Ganglia component Available as of Camel 2.15.0 Provides a mechanism to
send a value (the message body) as a metric to the Ganglia
http://ganglia.info monitoring system. Uses the gmetric4j library. Can
be used in conjunction with standard Ganglia http://

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/gauth[gauth] +

gauth Component Available in Camel 2.3 The gauth component is used by
web applications to implement a Google-specific OAuth
http://code.google.com/apis/accounts/docs/OAuth.html consumer. It will
be later extended to support other OAuth http://oauth.net/ p

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/General+Questions[General
Questions] +

General questions about Camel

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Geocoder[Geocoder] +

Geocoder Component Available as of Camel 2.12 The geocoder: component is
used for looking up geocodes (latitude and longitude) for a given
address, or reverse lookup. The component uses the Java API for Google
Geocoder https://code.google.com/p/geocoder-j

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Getting+Started[Getting
Started] +

Getting Started First you need to Download the Camel distribution; or
you could grab the Source and try Building it yourself. Then come back
here and you might want to read the following documentation before
continuing: Longer Getting Started Guide Find o

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/ghttp[ghttp] +

ghttp Component Available as of Camel 2.1 The ghttp component
contributes to the Camel Components for Google App Engine (GAE). It
provides connectivity to the GAE URL fetch service
http://code.google.com/appengine/docs/java/urlfetch/ but can also be
used

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Git[Git] +

Git Component Available as of Camel 2.16 The git: component allows you
to work with a generic Git repository. <dependency>
<groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId> <artifactId>camel-git</artifactId>
<version>x.x.x</version> <!-- use the same version as your C

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/GitHub[GitHub] +

GitHub Available as of Camel 2.15 The GitHub component interacts with
the GitHub API by encapsulating egit-github
http://org.eclipse.egit.github.core. It currently provides polling for
new pull requests, pull request comments, tags, and commits. It is al

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/glogin[glogin] +

glogin Component Available in Camel 2.3 The glogin component is used by
Camel applications outside Google App Engine (GAE) for programmatic
login to GAE applications. It is part of the Camel Components for Google
App Engine. Security-enabled GAE applicati

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/gmail[gmail] +

gmail Component Available as of Camel 2.1 The gmail component
contributes to the Camel Components for Google App Engine (GAE). It
supports sending of emails via the GAE mail service
http://code.google.com/appengine/docs/java/mail/. Receiving mails is not

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Google+SummerOfCode[Google
SummerOfCode] +

Ideas for the Apache Sponsored GSoC2009
http://wiki.apache.org/general/SummerOfCode2009. 2009 Full support of
the Camel DSL in Ruby and Python Camel provides an Enterprise
Integration Patterns Domain Specific Language which can be used from
many languges

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/GoogleCalendar[GoogleCalendar] +

GoogleCalendar Component Available as of Camel 2.15 Component
Description The Google Calendar component provides access to Google
Calendar http://google.com/calendar via the Google Calendar Web APIs
https://developers.google.com/google-apps/calendar/v3/re

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/GoogleDrive[GoogleDrive] +

GoogleDrive Component Available as of Camel 2.14 The Google Drive
component provides access to the Google Drive file storage service
http://drive.google.com via the Google Drive Web APIs
https://developers.google.com/drive/v2/reference. Google Drive uses

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/GoogleMail[GoogleMail] +

GoogleMail Component Available as of Camel 2.15 Component Description
The Google Mail component provides access to Gmail http://gmail.com/ via
the Google Mail Web APIs
https://developers.google.com/gmail/api/v1/reference/. Google Mail uses
the OAuth 2.0 p

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Gora[Gora] +

Camel-Gora is an Apache Camel http://camel.apache.org/ component that
allows you to work with NoSQL databases using the Apache Gora
http://gora.apache.org/ framework. Available as of Camel 2.14 Maven
users will need to add the following dependency to thei

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Graceful+Shutdown[Graceful
Shutdown] +

Graceful Shutdown Available as of Camel 2.2 Camel now supports a
pluggable shutdown strategy using org.apache.camel.spi.ShutdownStrategy.
Its responsible for shutting down routes in a graceful manner. The other
resources will still be handled by CamelCont

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Grape[Grape] +

Grape Component Available as of Camel 2.16 Grape
http://docs.groovy-lang.org/latest/html/documentation/grape.html
component allows you to fetch, load and manage additional jars when
CamelContext is running. In practice with Camel Grape component you ca

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Groovy[Groovy] +

Groovy Camel supports Groovy http://groovy.codehaus.org/ among other
Scripting Languages to allow an Expression or Predicate to be used in
the DSL or Xml Configuration. To use a Groovy expression use the
following Java code ... groovy("someGroovyExpressio

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Groovy+DSL[Groovy
DSL] +

About the Groovy DSL The Groovy DSL implementation is built on top of
the existing Java-based DSL, but it additionally allows to use Groovy
language features in your routes, particularly Closures
http://www.groovy-lang.org/closures.html acting as Processo

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Groovy+Renderer+User+Guide[Groovy
Renderer User Guide] +

Groovy Renderer User Guide This page presents how to editing the route
definition in groovy language through the Web Console and which DSLs
have beensupported currently. What is Groovy Renderer Groovy Renderer is
a component, which can translate a route i

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/gsec[gsec] +

Security for Camel GAE Applications Securing GAE applications from
unauthorized access is described in the Security and Authentication
http://code.google.com/appengine/docs/java/config/webxml.html#Security_and_Authentication
section of the Google App Engi

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/GSoC+2009[GSoC
2009] +

Camel Dynamic Routes Student: Xueqiang Mi <alloyer AT gmail DOT com>
Mentor: Jonathan Anstey <janstey AT apache DOT org> Project Description
We can already modify XML at runtime; we could do with visualizations
using Scala, Ruby, Groovy, Python so that fo

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/gtask[gtask] +

gtask Component Available as of Camel 2.1 The gtask component
contributes to the Camel Components for Google App Engine (GAE). It
supports asynchronous message processing on GAE by using the task
queueing service http://code.google.com/appengine/docs/java

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Guaranteed+Delivery[Guaranteed
Delivery] +

Guaranteed Delivery Camel supports the Guaranteed Delivery
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/GuaranteedMessaging.html
from the EIP patterns using among others the following components: File
for using file systems as a persistent store of messag

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Guava+EventBus[Guava
EventBus] +

Guava EventBus Component The Google Guava EventBus
http://docs.guava-libraries.googlecode.com/git/javadoc/com/google/common/eventbus/package-summary.html
allows publish-subscribe-style communication between components without
requiring the components to e

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Guice[Guice] +

Camel Guice We have support for Google Guice
http://code.google.com/p/google-guice/ as a dependency injection
framework. Maven users will need to add the following dependency to
their pom.xml for this component: <dependency>
<groupId>org.apache.camel</gro

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Guice+Dot+Maven+Goal+[Guice
Dot Maven Goal] +

guice:dot The guice:dot goal of the Guice Maven Plugin is used to
generate Visualisation diagrams for your Enterprise Integration Patterns
which use Guice for their Dependency Injection framework. It works like
guice:embedded, it will boot up your Guice c

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Guice+Embedded+Maven+Goal[Guice
Embedded Maven Goal] +

guice:embedded The guice:embedded goal of the Guice Maven Plugin is used
to run your Camel Guice configurations in the same JVM as Maven, so it
should startup a bit faster than guice:run. Though sometimes we all get
the odd classpath issue; so sometimes f

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Guice+JMS+Example[Guice
JMS Example] +

Guice JMS Example Available as of Camel 1.5 onwards The Guice JMS
example is functionally similar to both the first example and the Spring
Example but using Guice as the Dependency Injection framework. In this
example we just write RouteBuilder implementa

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Guice+Maven+Plugin[Guice
Maven Plugin] +

Guice Maven Plugin The Guice Maven Plugin
http://activemq.apache.org/camel/maven/maven-plugins/guice-maven-plugin/plugin-info.html
allows you to run your Enterprise Integration Patterns using Guice for
Dependency Injection inside Maven along with being ab

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Guice+Run+Maven+Goal[Guice
Run Maven Goal] +

guice:run The guice:run goal of the Guice Maven Plugin is used to run
your Camel Guice configurations in a forked JVM from Maven. A good
example application to get you started is the Guice JMS Example. cd
examples/camel-example-guice-jms mvn guice:run Thi

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/GZip+data+format[GZip
data format] +

The GZip Data Format is a message compression and de-compression format.
It uses the same deflate algorithm that is used in Zip DataFormat,
although some additional headers are provided. This format is produced
by popular gzip/gunzip tool. Messages marsha

[[h]]
[[index-H]]H
++++++++++++

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/HawtDB[HawtDB] +

HawtDB Available as of Camel 2.3 HawtDB http://hawtdb.fusesource.org/ is
a very lightweight and embedable key value database. It allows together
with Camel to provide persistent support for various Camel features such
as Aggregator. The HawtDB http://hawt

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Hazelcast+Component[Hazelcast
Component] +

Hazelcast Component Available as of Camel 2.7 The hazelcast: component
allows you to work with the Hazelcast http://www.hazelcast.com
distributed data grid / cache. Hazelcast is a in memory data grid,
entirely written in Java (single jar). It offers a gre

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Hazelcast+Idempotent+Repository+Tutorial[Hazelcast
Idempotent Repository Tutorial] +

Hazelcast Idempotent Repository Tutorial Overview Apache Camel enables
you to integrate the Idempotent Consumer Pattern in a really simple way.
In this tutorial we will setup a cluster consisting of two OSGi
containers (Apache Karaf). Inside this both nod

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/hbase[hbase] +

HBase Component Available as of Camel 2.10 This component provides an
idempotent repository, producers and consumers for Apache HBase
http://hbase.apache.org/. Maven users will need to add the following
dependency to their pom.xml for this component: <dep

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/HDFS[HDFS] +

HDFS Component Available as of Camel 2.8 The hdfs component enables you
to read and write messages from/to an HDFS file system. HDFS is the
distributed file system at the heart of Hadoop http://hadoop.apache.org.
Maven users will need to add the following

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/HDFS2[HDFS2] +

HDFS2 Component Available as of Camel 2.13 The hdfs2 component enables
you to read and write messages from/to an HDFS file system using Hadoop
2.x. HDFS is the distributed file system at the heart of Hadoop
http://hadoop.apache.org. Maven users will need

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Header[Header] +

Header Expression Language The Header Expression Language allows you to
extract values of named headers. Example usage The recipientList element
of the Spring DSL can utilize a header expression like:
\{snippet:id=e1|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/cam

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Hessian[Hessian] +

Hessian Data Format provides marshalling an unmarshialling using Hessian
http://caucho.com/resin-3.1/doc/hessian-2.0-spec.xtpprotocol developed
by Caucho http://caucho.com/. Hessian is a platform and language
independent, binary serialization protocol. A

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Hibernate[Hibernate] +

Hibernate Component The hibernate: component allows you to work with
databases using Hibernate as the object relational mapping technology to
map POJOs to database tables. The camel-hibernate library is provided by
the Camel Extra http://code.google.com/p

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Hibernate+Example[Hibernate
Example] +

Hibernate Example Available as of Camel 2.11 This example is located in
the examples/camel-example-hibernate directory of the Camel Extras
http://camel-extra.googlecode.com/ project. There is a README.txt file
with instructions how to run it. The source c

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Hiding+Middleware[Hiding
Middleware] +

When writing software these days, its important to try and decouple as
much middleware code from your business logic as possible. This provides
a number of benefits... you can choose the right middleware solution for
your deployment and switch at any time

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Hipchat[Hipchat] +

Hipchat Component Available as of Camel 2.15.0 The Hipchat component
supports producing and consuming messages from/to Hipchat
https://www.hipchat.com service. You must have a valid Hipchat user
account and get a personal access token https://www.hipchat.

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/HL7[HL7] +

HL7 Component The HL7 component is used for working with the HL7 MLLP
protocol and HL7 v2 messages
http://www.hl7.org/implement/standards/product_brief.cfm?product_id=185
using the HAPI library http://hl7api.sourceforge.net. This component
supports the fo

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/HL7+DataFormat[HL7
DataFormat] +

HL7 DataFormat The HL7 component ships with a HL7 data format that can
be used to marshal or unmarshal HL7 model objects. marshal = from
Message to byte stream (can be used when responding using the HL7 MLLP
codec) unmarshal = from byte stream to Message

Page:
link:ho-do-i-specify-which-method-to-use-when-using-beans-in-routes.html[Ho
do I specify which method to use when using beans in routes?] +

Ho do I specify which method to use when using beans in routes? See
Bean, Bean Integration and Bean Binding However if you have overloaded
methods you need to specify which of those overloaded method you want to
use by specifying parameter type qualifiers

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+can+I+create+a+custom+component+or+endpoint[How
can I create a custom component or endpoint] +

How can I create a custom component or endpoint? Please read Writing
Components for a background in how to implement a new component or
endpoint. Its really easy to do! See Also Writing Components How do I
add a component How Do I Configure Endpoints?

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+can+I+get+help[How
can I get help] +

Support

Page:
link:how-can-i-get-the-remote-connection-ip-address-from-the-camel-cxf-consumer-.html[How
can I get the remote connection IP address from the camel-cxf consumer
?] +

How can I get the remote connection IP address from the camel-cxf
consumer ? From Camel 2.6.0, you can access the CXF Message by using the
key of CamelCxfMessage from message header, and you can get the
ServletRequest instance from the CXF message, then y

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+can+I+get+the+source+code[How
can I get the source code] +

Source

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+can+I+stop+a+route+from+a+route[How
can I stop a route from a route] +

How can I stop a route from a route The CamelContext provides API for
managing routes at runtime. It has a stopRoute(id) and startRoute(id)
methods. Stopping a route during routing an existing message is a bit
tricky. The reason for that is Camel will Gra

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+can+webservice+clients+see+remote+faults+with+stacktraces+when+using+camel-cxf[How
can webservice clients see remote faults with stacktraces when using
camel-cxf] +

How can webservice clients see remote faults with stacktraces when using
camel-cxf? See Apache CXF documentation about SOAP fault for debugging
http://cxf.apache.org/docs/debugging-and-logging.html#DebuggingandLogging-SOAPFaultfordebugging

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+add+a+component[How
do I add a component] +

How do I add a component You might first want to read Writing Components
for a background in how to implement a new component. Typically it means
you write an implementation of the Component
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apa

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+become+a+committer[How
do I become a committer] +

How can I become a committer First of all you need to get involved and
Contribute via the mail list, forums, edit the documentation, work on
the issue tracker and submit patches. Once you're contributing and your
work is good, one of our Team may invite y

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+change+the+logging[How
do I change the logging] +

How do I change the logging We use commons-logging
http://jakarta.apache.org/commons/logging/ to log information in the
broker client and the broker itself so you can fully configure the
logging levels desired, whether to log to files or the console, as w

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+compile+the+code[How
do I compile the code] +

How do I compile from the source code? See the Building page

Page: link:how-do-i-configure-endpoints.html[How Do I Configure
Endpoints?] +

How Do I Configure Endpoints? There are a few different approaches to
configuring components and endpoints. Using Java You can explicitly
configure a Component using Java code as shown in this example Or you
can explicitly get hold of an Endpoint and conf

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+configure+password+options+on+Camel+endpoints+without+the+value+being+encoded[How
do I configure password options on Camel endpoints without the value
being encoded] +

How do I configure password options on Camel endpoints without the value
being encoded? When you configure Camel endpoints using URIs then the
parameter values gets url encoded by default. This can be a problem when
you want to configure passwords as is.

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+configure+the+default+maximum+cache+size+for+ProducerCache+or+ProducerTemplate[How
do I configure the default maximum cache size for ProducerCache or
ProducerTemplate] +

How do I configure the default maximum cache size for ProducerCache or
ProducerTemplate Available as of Camel 2.3 This applies to ConsumerCache
and ConsumerTemplate as well. You can configure the default maximum
cache size by setting the Exchange.MAXIMUM_

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+configure+the+maximum+endpoint+cache+size+for+CamelContext[How
do I configure the maximum endpoint cache size for CamelContext] +

How do I configure the maximum endpoint cache size for CamelContext?
CamelContext will by default cache the last 1000 used endpoints (based
on a LRUCache). Configuring cache size Available as of Camel 2.8 You can
configure the default maximum cache size b

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+debug+my+route[How
do I debug my route] +

How do I debug my route? If you've created a route and its not doing
what you think it is you could try using one of these features from
version 1.4 onwards Tracer to trace in commons-logging / log4j each step
that Camel takes Debugger to let you set brea

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+disable+JMX[How
do I disable JMX] +

How do I disable JMX? You can disable JMX instrumentation agent by
setting Java VM system property as follow. The property value is treated
as boolean. -Dorg.apache.camel.jmx.disabled=true Or, by adding a
jmxAgent element inside the camelContext element i

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+edit+the+website[How
do I edit the website] +

How do I edit the website? The website is all contained on a Wiki so
that you can contribute providing you are happy to license all your
contributions under the Apache Software License version 2.0
http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 You must have s

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+enable+debug+logging[How
do I enable debug logging] +

How do I enable debug logging? Camel uses convention over configuration
so sometimes its useful to turn on debug logging to see how Camel is
operating and to try and diagnose issues. Uses Commons Logging To enable
debug logging we recommend you use log4j

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+enable+streams+when+debug+logging+messages+in+Camel[How
do I enable streams when debug logging messages in Camel] +

How do I enable streams when debug logging messages in Camel Available
as of Camel 2.1 When you run Camel with DEBUG level as logging, it will
log the messages and its content from time to time. As some messages can
contain streams, which are prone to be

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+handle+failures+when+consuming+for+example+from+a+FTP+server[How
do I handle failures when consuming for example from a FTP server] +

How do I handle failures when consuming for example from a FTP server
When you do a route such as
from("ftp://foo@somesever.com?password=secret").to("bean:logic?method=doSomething");
And there is a failure with connecting to the remote FTP server. The exi

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+import+rests+from+other+XML+files[How
do I import rests from other XML files] +

How do I import rests from other XML files Available as of Camel 2.14
When defining rests in Camel using Xml Configuration you may want to
define some rests in other XML files. For example you may have many rest
services and it may help to maintain the ap

Page: link:how-do-i-import-routes-from-other-xml-files.html[How Do I
Import Routes From Other XML Files?] +

How Do I Import Routes From Other XML Files? Available as of Camel 2.3
When defining routes in Camel using Xml Configuration you may want to
define some routes in other XML files. For example you may have many
routes and it may help to maintain the applic

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+invoke+Camel+routes+from+JBI[How
do I invoke Camel routes from JBI] +

How do I invoke Camel routes from JBI When you use the JBI endpoint as
follows from("jbi:endpoint:http://foo.bar.org/MyService/MyEndpoint") you
automatically expose the endpoint to the NMR bus where service qname is
\{http://foo.bar.org}MyService and endpo

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+let+Jetty+match+wildcards[How
do I let Jetty match wildcards] +

How do I let Jetty match wildcards By default Jetty will only match on
exact uri's. But you can instruct Jetty to match prefixes. For example
from("jetty://0.0.0.0:8123/foo").to("mock:foo"); In the route above
Jetty will only match if the uri is an exact

Page: link:how-do-i-make-my-jms-endpoint-transactional.html[How Do I
Make My JMS Endpoint Transactional?] +

How Do I Make My JMS Endpoint Transactional? I have a JMS route like
this: from("activemq:Some.Queue") .bean(MyProcessor.class); Question:
How Do I Make It Transactional? Answer: There are examples in the
Transactional Client and it is described in the En

Page: link:how-do-i-name-my-routes.html[How do I name my routes?] +

How do I name my routes? You can assign names to your routes in Java DSL
using routeId from("direct:start").routeId("myRoute") .to(mock:bar); And
in Spring XML using the id attribute: <route id="myRoute"> <from
uri="direct:start"/> <to uri="mock:bar"/> </

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+restart+CamelContext[How
do I restart CamelContext] +

How do I restart CamelContext A CamelContext provides operations to
control its lifecycle, see more at CamelContext. Note: Obviously you can
also restart a Camel application if its been deployed in a server. For
example a WAR application can be restarted

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+retrieve+the+thrown+Exception+during+processing+an+Exchange[How
do I retrieve the thrown Exception during processing an Exchange] +

How do I retrieve the thrown Exception during processing an Exchange You
have send an Exchange to Camel but it fails during processing caused by
a thrown Exception. How do I retrieve this Exception? If you are using
CamelTemplate (or CamelProducer), then

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+retry+failed+messages+forever[How
do I retry failed messages forever] +

How do I retry failed messages forever? If you want to keep the bad
message in the original queue, then you are also blocking the messages
that has arrived on the queue after the bad message. By default Camel
will retry consuming a message up til 6 times

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+retry+processing+a+message+from+a+certain+point+back+or+an+entire+route[How
do I retry processing a message from a certain point back or an entire
route] +

How do I retry processing a message from a certain point back or an
entire route By default Apache Camel will perform any redelivery (retry)
attempts from the point of failure. So if you want to retry from a point
before this, you would need to split up y

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+reuse+the+ContextTestSupport+class+in+my+unit+tests[How
do I reuse the ContextTestSupport class in my unit tests] +

How do I reuse the ContextTestSupport class in my unit tests You might
want to look at the various Testing options, in particular Camel Test
and Spring Testing to see if those are better, more powerful options. We
see ContextTestSupport as an older, less

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+run+ActiveMQ+and+Camel+in+JBoss[How
do I run ActiveMQ and Camel in JBoss] +

How do I run ActiveMQ and Camel in JBoss A user had a problem with
running ActiveMQ embedded inside JBoss. He reported his findings on the
Camel mailing list which you can read about his solution here
http://www.nabble.com/JBoss-%2B-ActiveMQ-%2B-Camel-%2B

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+run+Camel+using+Java+WebStart[How
do I run Camel using Java WebStart] +

How do I run Camel using Java WebStart? Camel 1.5 has support for
starting using Java WebStart. However there is a restriction to not use
the version attribute for camel jars. What you need to have in mind is
that Camel will scan for resources in .jar fil

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+set+the+max+chars+when+debug+logging+messages+in+Camel[How
do I set the max chars when debug logging messages in Camel] +

How do I set the max chars when debug logging messages in Camel
Available as of Camel 2.0 When you run Camel with logging, it will log
the messages and its content from time to time. As some messages can
contain very big payloads Camel will by default cli

Page: link:how-do-i-set-the-mep-when-interacting-with-jbi.html[How do I
set the MEP when interacting with JBI?] +

Problem If you are using the Camel JBI integration to send a
MessageExchange to another JBI component from within your Camel route,
Camel uses the MEP of the underlying Camel Exchange to determine the MEP
of the JBI MessageExchange. An example: from(""tim

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+specify+time+period+in+a+human+friendly+syntax[How
do I specify time period in a human friendly syntax] +

How do I specify time period in a human friendly syntax Available as of
Camel 2.3 Some of the Camel components offers options to specify a time
period, which must be entered in milli second as unit. This may be
unfriendly to read as a human when the value

Page: link:how-do-i-use-a-big-uber-jar.html[How do I use a big (uber)
JAR?] +

How do I use a big (uber) JAR? If you want to repackage all the Camel
JARs into a single uber JAR then you can use the Maven shade plugin. But
you have to ensure all the service files get appended correctly. If you
do this you are taking responsible yours

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+use+Camel+inside+ServiceMix[How
do I use Camel inside ServiceMix] +

How do I use Camel inside ServiceMix? See the Using Camel with
ServiceMix tutorial
http://servicemix.apache.org/3-beginner-using-apache-camel-inside-servicemix.html
for an indepth walk through of using Camel to route inside the JBI based
Normalized Messag

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+use+Java+1.4+logging[How
do I use Java 1.4 logging] +

How do I use Java 1.4 logging? Uses Commons Logging The quick way to
enable Java 1.4 logging is to create a commons-logging.properties file
on the classpath with this entry...
org.apache.commons.logging.Log=org.apache.commons.logging.impl.Jdk14Logger
#org

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+use+log4j[How
do I use log4j] +

How do I use Log4j? Uses Commons Logging The quick way to enable Log4j
is to add log4j to your classpath or maven pom.xml. For example the
following in your pom.xml should do the trick <dependencies>
<dependency> <groupId>commons-logging</groupId> <artifa

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+use+Spring+Property+Placeholder+with+Camel+XML[How
do I use Spring Property Placeholder with Camel XML] +

How do I use Spring Property Placeholder with Camel XML We do NOT yet
support the $\{something} notation inside arbitrary Camel XML. For
example at the time of writing this is NOT supported (due Spring
limitations) <beans xmlns="http://www.springframework.

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+use+URIs+with+parameters+in+XML[How
do I use URIs with parameters in XML] +

How do I use URIs with parameters in XML? If you try and use one of the
Camel URIs in an Xml Configuration using the URI query parameter
notation, such as <route> <from uri="direct:start?paramA=1&paramB=2"/>
<to uri="mock:result"/> </route> you might get

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+I+write+a+custom+Processor+which+sends+multiple+messages[How
do I write a custom Processor which sends multiple messages] +

How do I write a custom Processor which sends multiple messages? You
could use a Splitter or use multiple Message Translator instances in
your route. Or you could write a custom processor which is injected with
a ProducerTemplate instance that just genera

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+the+direct%2C+event%2C+seda+and+vm+endpoints+compare[How
do the direct, event, seda and vm endpoints compare] +

How do the direct, event, seda and vm endpoints compare? VM and SEDA
endpoints are basically the same; they both offer asychronous in memory
SEDA queues; they differ in visibility endpoints are visible inside the
same JVM or within the same CamelContext r

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+do+the+Timer+and+Quartz+endpoints+compare[How
do the Timer and Quartz endpoints compare] +

How do the Timer and Quartz endpoints compare? Timer is a simple, non
persistence timer using the JDK's in built timer mechanism. Quartz uses
the Quartz library which uses a database to store timer events and
supports distributed timers and cron notation

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+does+Camel+compare+to+Mule[How
does Camel compare to Mule] +

How does Camel compare to Mule? This FAQ entry was written when Mule 1.x
and 2.x existed. It doesn't cater for how Mule may go in Mule 3.x. I
guess from 30,000 feet they're kinda similar beasts; they're both kinds
of routing/mediation engines. The main di

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+does+Camel+compare+to+ServiceMix[How
does Camel compare to ServiceMix] +

How does Camel compare to ServiceMix? Camel is smart routing and
mediation engine which implements the Enterprise Integration Patterns
and is designed to be used either inside an ESB like ServiceMix, in a
Message Broker like ActiveMQ or in a smart endpoin

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+does+Camel+compare+to+ServiceMix+EIP[How
does Camel compare to ServiceMix EIP] +

How does Camel compare to ServiceMix EIP ServiceMix EIP
http://servicemix.apache.org/servicemix-eip.html was the ancestor though
they both do similar things. The main difference with ServiceMix EIP is
its integrated into the existing ServiceMix XBean XML

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+does+Camel+compare+to+Synapse[How
does Camel compare to Synapse] +

How does Camel compare to Synapse? We are Camel developers so take what
you read here with a pinch of salt. If you want to read a less biased
comparison try reading this review which has a slight Synapse bias since
the author mostly uses Synapse http://ra

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+does+Camel+look+up+beans+and+endpoints[How
does Camel look up beans and endpoints] +

How does Camel look up beans, components or endpoints? There are many
times using Camel that a name is used for a bean such as using the Bean
endpoint or using the Bean Language to create a Expression or Predicate
or referring to any Component or Endpoint

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+does+Camel+work[How
does Camel work] +

How does Camel work? Please see the Architecture for details of how
things work.

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+does+Camel+work+with+ActiveMQ[How
does Camel work with ActiveMQ] +

How does Camel work with ActiveMQ? You can use Camel to do smart routing
and implement the Enterprise Integration Patterns inside the ActiveMQ
message broker the ActiveMQ JMS client So Camel can route messages to
and from Mail, File, FTP, JPA, XMPP other

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+does+Camel+work+with+ServiceMix[How
does Camel work with ServiceMix] +

How does Camel work with ServiceMix? You can use Camel to do smart
routing and implement the Enterprise Integration Patterns inside of the
JBI container, routing between existing JBI components together with
communicating with any of the other Camel Compo

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+does+the+Camel+API+compare+to[How
does the Camel API compare to] +

How does the Camel API compare to from CXF, HTTP, JBI, JMS, JavaMail etc
We have tried to make the Camel Exchange
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/Exchange.html
and Message http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/cam

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+does+the+website+work[How
does the website work] +

How does the website work This website is actually rendered from the
Wiki contents that you can edit. When viewing a page on the static HTML
website you can click on the edit link (bottom of the page) and you can
edit the page. For more information see Ho

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+should+I+invoke+my+POJOs+or+Spring+Services[How
should I invoke my POJOs or Spring Services] +

How should I invoke my POJOs or Spring Services? The various options are
described in detail in Bean Integration, in particular the Bean Binding
describes how we invoke a bean inside a route See the POJO Consuming for
examples using either the @Consume an

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+should+I+package+applications+using+Camel+and+ActiveMQ[How
should I package applications using Camel and ActiveMQ] +

How should I package applications using Camel and ActiveMQ

Page:
link:how-to-avoid-importing-bunch-of-cxf-packages-when-start-up-the-camel-cxf-endpoint-from-osgi-platform-.html[How
to avoid importing bunch of cxf packages when start up the camel-cxf
endpoint from OSGi platform ?] +

If you are using camel-cxf endpoint in your OSGi bundle and want to get
full of control of CXF component loading. (eg. you just want to use the
http jetty transport, soap binding and don't want to load jms transport,
jaxrs modules). You may need to tell S

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+to+avoid+sending+some+or+all+message+headers[How
to avoid sending some or all message headers] +

How to avoid sending some or all message headers? When I send a message
to a Camel endpoint such as the Mail component, then the mail include
some message headers I do not want. How can I avoid this? Use
removeHeaders in the route This is a gotcha more pe

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+to+define+a+static+camel+converter+method+in+Scala[How
to define a static camel converter method in Scala] +

When you use scala object you can define the static method for others to
use. Scala will create a Class which implements the singleton pattern
for that class object. If the object name is A, you can find the
singleton class name with A$. Using javap to re

Page:
link:how-to-remove-the-http-protocol-headers-in-the-camel-message.html[How
to remove the http protocol headers in the camel message?] +

In camel there are a number of components that use the http protocol
headers to do their business. The components include camel-http,
camel-jetty, camel-restlet, camel-cxf, etc. If you are using these
component, you may pay attention to the Http protocol

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+to+run+Camel+in+a+osgi+container[How
to run Camel in a osgi container] +

Run Camel With ServiceMix Kernel Apache ServiceMix Kernel
http://http://servicemix.apache.org/SMX4KNL/index.html is a small OSGi
based runtime which provides a lightweight container onto which various
bundles can be deployed. Now you can deploy your route

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+to+send+the+same+message+to+multiple+endpoints[How
to send the same message to multiple endpoints] +

How to send the same message to multiple endpoints When you need to send
the same message to multiple endpoints then you should use Multicast. In
the sample below we consume messages from the activemq queue foo and
want to send the same message to both se

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+to+switch+the+CXF+consumer+between+HTTP+and+HTTPS+without+touching+the+Spring+configuration[How
to switch the CXF consumer between HTTP and HTTPS without touching the
Spring configuration] +

You can find general information how to secure your Camel CXF Consumer
with HTTPS here
http://cxf.apache.org/docs/client-http-transport-including-ssl-support.html
A simple Camel CXF Consumer configuration which use the http:conduit
configuration to enable

Page: link:how-to-use-a-dynamic-uri-in-to.html[How to use a dynamic URI
in to()] +

How to use a dynamic URI in to() A dynamic URI is an endpoint URI that
varies depending on inflight routing information, such as Exchange
properties, message headers, the body, the Camel Context, etc. From
Camel 2.16 onwards there is a new <toD> which is

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+to+use+Camel+as+a+HTTP+proxy+between+a+client+and+server[How
to use Camel as a HTTP proxy between a client and server] +

How to use Camel as a HTTP proxy between a client and server You may
have an existing HTTP service, which you want to use Camel in between as
a proxy, between the client and the server. This can be done using the
Jetty component as follows: <route> <from

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/How+to+use+extra+camel+componets+in+servicemix-camel[How
to use extra camel componets in servicemix-camel] +

Since Servicemix3's component has same hierarchies of the class loaders
with the J2EE application server, and the components the class loader is
separated with the SU's. And Camel has lots of components, we just
include the camel-core and camel-spring com

Page:
link:how-to-validate-the-camel-1x-context-xml-from-apache-camel-web-site.html[How
to validate the camel-1.x context xml from Apache Camel web site?] +

Since Camel became to be Apache Top Level Project for a while, and all
the request to the camel old web site (http://activemq.apache.org/camel/
http://activemq.apache.org/camel/) will be redirect to the new site
(http://camel.apache.org http://camel.apach

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/HTTP[HTTP] +

HTTP Component The http: component provides HTTP based endpoints for
consuming external HTTP resources (as a client to call external servers
using HTTP). Maven users will need to add the following dependency to
their pom.xml for this component: <dependenc

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/HTTP+Async+Example[HTTP
Async Example] +

HTTP Async Example This example shows how to use the new feature in
Camel 2.1 which is support for non blocking asynchronous producers by
ToAsync. Currently camel-jetty implements this to the fullest as its
JettyHttpProducer supports non blocking request/

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/HTTP-Session+Handling[HTTP-Session
Handling] +

Available as of Camel 2.19 Several Camel components can use HTTP as the
underlying transport protocol. In general HTTP calls are stateless in
nature, however some servers allow to maintain state via cookies.
Cookies are often used to maintain a server ses

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/HTTP4[HTTP4] +

HTTP4 Component Available as of Camel 2.3 The camel-http4 component
provides HTTP based endpoints for calling external HTTP resources (as a
client to call external servers using HTTP). Maven users will need to
add the following dependency to their pom.xml

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Hystrix+EIP[Hystrix
EIP] +

Hystrix EIP Available as of Camel 2.18 The hystrix EIP provides
integration with Netflix Hystrix https://github.com/Netflix/Hystrix to
be used as circuit breaker in the Camel routes. Hystrix is a latency and
fault tolerance library designed to isolate poi

[[i]]
[[index-I]]I
++++++++++++

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/iBATIS[iBATIS] +

iBATIS The ibatis: component allows you to query, poll, insert, update
and delete data in a relational database using Apache iBATIS
http://ibatis.apache.org/. The Apache iBatis project is no longer
active. The project is moved outside Apache and is now kn

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/ICal[ICal] +

ICal DataFormat Available as of Camel 2.11.1 The ICal dataformat is used
for working with iCalendar http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ICalendar
messages. A typical iCalendar message looks like: BEGIN:VCALENDAR
VERSION:2.0 PRODID:-//Events Calendar//iCal4j 1.0/

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Idempotent+Consumer[Idempotent
Consumer] +

Idempotent Consumer The Idempotent Consumer
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/IdempotentReceiver.html
from the EIP patterns is used to filter out duplicate messages. This
pattern is implemented using the IdempotentConsumer
http://camel.apache.o

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/If+I+use+ServiceMix+when+should+I+use+Camel[If
I use ServiceMix when should I use Camel] +

If I use ServiceMix when should I use Camel? Camel is a routing and
mediation engine which works great inside JBI. So if you are already
using ServiceMix http://servicemix.apache.org/ then you can use Camel
implement the Enterprise Integration Patterns in

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Ignite[Ignite] +

Camel Ignite component Available as of Camel 2.17 Apache Ignite
https://ignite.apache.org/ In-Memory Data Fabric is a high-performance,
integrated and distributed in-memory platform for computing and
transacting on large-scale data sets in real-time, orde

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Implementing+Virtual+Topics+on+other+JMS+providers[Implementing
Virtual Topics on other JMS providers] +

Implementing Virtual Topics on other JMS providers ActiveMQ
http://activemq.apache.org/ supports Virtual Topics
http://activemq.apache.org/virtual-destinations.html since durable topic
subscriptions kinda suck (see this page for more detail http://activem

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/In+Progress[In
Progress] +

Releases In Progress The following releases are currently in progress

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Includes[Includes] +

Includes This contains a number of reusable page fragments which are
included in multiple real pages in the documentation.

Home page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Index[Index] +

Since we're on a major migration process of this website, some component
documents here are out of sync right now. In the meantime you may want
to look at the asciidoc in the repository:
https://github.com/apache/camel/blob/master/README.md https://github

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Infinispan[Infinispan] +

Infinispan Component Available as of Camel 2.13.0 This component allows
you to interact with Infinispan http://infinispan.org/ distributed data
grid / cache. Infinispan is an extremely scalable, highly available
key/value data store and data grid platform

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Injector[Injector] +

Injector The Injector
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/spi/Injector.html
is a pluggable strategy to any IoC container such as Spring or Guice to
be able to create and dependency-inject objects of a certain type. Fo

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Intercept[Intercept] +

Intercept The intercept feature in Camel supports intercepting Exchanges
while they are en route. We have overhauled the Intercept in Camel 2.0
so the following information is based on Camel 2.0. Camel supports three
kinds of interceptors: intercept that

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Inversion+Of+Control+With+Smart+Defaults[Inversion
Of Control With Smart Defaults] +

Inversion Of Control With Smart Defaults Inversion of Control is a
powerful way of wiring together your beans so that the beans themselves
can stay simple & be injected with their dependencies by their IoC
container. One of the downsides of wring everythi

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/IRC[IRC] +

IRC Component The irc component implements an IRC
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Relay_Chat (Internet Relay Chat)
transport. Maven users will need to add the following dependency to
their pom.xml for this component: <dependency> <groupId>org.apache

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/IRC+Room[IRC
Room] +

IRC You can hang out on IRC in the #apache-camel room at freenode with
other Apache Camel developers and users. Using an IRC client Here are
the connection details. server irc.freenode.net port 6667 room
#apache-camel Gitter Room Apache Camel is also on

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/IronMQ[IronMQ] +

The IronMQ component provides integration with IronMQ
http://www.iron.io/products/mq a elastic and durable hosted message
queue as a service. The component uses the IronMQ java client
https://github.com/iron-io/iron_mq_java library. To run it requires

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Is+Camel+an+ESB[Is
Camel an ESB] +

Is Camel an ESB? Typically vendors claim practically everything is an
ESB these days, so the answer is probably yes However our view is that
an ESB is more of a container of integration components, so we view
Apache ServiceMix http://servicemix.apache.org

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Is+Camel+IoC+friendly[Is
Camel IoC friendly] +

Is Camel IoC friendly? The quick answer is, yes absolutely! . Now for
the longer answer... Spring In particular we've gone out of our way to
make Camel work great with Spring and to reuse all of Spring 2.x's
power. For example the CamelContext, Components

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Is+there+an+IDE[Is
there an IDE] +

Is there an IDE for editing Camel routes? Apache Camel offers no IDE out
of the box. You could use your Java IDE for smart completion when
creating Java routing rules via the DSL which will give you smart
completion in Java code. Or you can use your XML I

[[j]]
[[index-J]]J
++++++++++++

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Jackson+XML[Jackson
XML] +

Jackson XML Available as of Camel 2.16 Jackson XML is a Data Format
which uses the Jackson library http://wiki.fasterxml.com/JacksonHome/
with the XMLMapper extension
https://github.com/FasterXML/jackson-dataformat-xml to unmarshal an XML
payload into Jav

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Jasypt[Jasypt] +

Jasypt component Available as of Camel 2.5 Jasypt http://www.jasypt.org/
is a simplified encryption library which makes encryption and decryption
easy. Camel integrates with Jasypt to allow sensitive information in
Properties files to be encrypted. By dro

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Java+DSL[Java
DSL] +

Java DSL Apache Camel offers a Java based DSL using the fluent builder
style. The Java DSL is available by extending the RouteBuilder class,
and implement the configure method. This is best illustrate by an
example. In the code below we create a new class

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/JavaDoc[JavaDoc] +

JavaDoc The core API is defined in the camel-core javadoc
http://www.javadoc.io/doc/org.apache.camel/camel-core. See Also
Architecture Getting Started

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/JavaScript[JavaScript] +

JavaScript Camel supports JavaScript/ECMAScript
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript among other Scripting Languages
to allow an Expression or Predicate to be used in the DSL or Xml
Configuration. To use a JavaScript expression use the following Java c

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/JavaSpace[JavaSpace] +

JavaSpace Component Available as of Camel 2.1 The javaspace component is
a transport for working with any JavaSpace compliant implementation and
this component has been tested with both the Blitz implementation
http://www.dancres.org/blitz/ and the GigaSp

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/JAXB[JAXB] +

JAXB JAXB is a Data Format which uses the JAXB2 XML marshalling standard
which is included in Java 6 to unmarshal an XML payload into Java
objects or to marshal Java objects into an XML payload. Using the Java
DSL For example the following uses a named Da

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/JBI[JBI] +

JBI Component The jbi component is implemented by the ServiceMix Camel
module http://servicemix.apache.org/servicemix-camel.html and provides
integration with a JBI Normalized Message Router, such as the one
provided by Apache ServiceMix http://servicemix

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/JBI+Service+Unit+Archetype[JBI
Service Unit Archetype] +

JBI Service Unit Archetype If you want to spin up your own project to
use Camel to perform some smart routing inside your JBI based ESB you
can use the Maven archtetype to get up to speed quickly. Just type the
following into a console... mvn archetype:cr

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/jBPM[jBPM] +

jBPM Component Available as of Camel 2.16 The jbpm component provides
integration with Business Process Management (BPM) Suit jBPM
http://www.jbpm.org/. It uses kie-remote-client API to interact with
jBPM instance over REST. The component supports only pr

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/JCache[JCache] +

JCache Component Available as of Camel 2.17 The jcache component enables
you to perform caching operations using JCache (JSR-107) as the Cache
Implementation. The cache itself is created on demand or if a cache of
that name already exists then it is sim

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/JCIFS[JCIFS] +

JCIFS Component Available as of Camel 2.11.0 This component provides
access to remote file systems over the CIFS/SMB networking protocol. The
camel-jcifs library is provided by the Camel Extra
http://code.google.com/p/camel-extra/ project which hosts all

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/jclouds[jclouds] +

Jclouds Component Available as of Camel 2.9 This component allows
interaction with cloud provider key-value engines (blobstores) and
compute services. The component uses jclouds
http://code.google.com/p/jclouds which is a library that provides
abstraction

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/JCR[JCR] +

JCR Component The jcr component allows you to add/read nodes to/from a
JCR compliant content repository (for example, Apache Jackrabbit
http://jackrabbit.apache.org/) with its producer, or register an
EventListener with the consumer. Maven users will need

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/JDBC[JDBC] +

JDBC Component The jdbc component enables you to access databases
through JDBC, where SQL queries (SELECT) and operations (INSERT, UPDATE,
etc) are sent in the message body. This component uses the standard JDBC
API, unlike the SQL Component component, wh

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Jetty[Jetty] +

Jetty Component The producer is deprecated - do not use. We only
recommend using jetty as consumer (eg from jetty) The jetty component
provides HTTP-based endpoints for consuming and producing HTTP requests.
That is, the Jetty component behaves as a sim

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/JGroups[JGroups] +

JGroups Component JGroups http://www.jgroups.org is a toolkit for
reliable multicast communication. The jgroups: component provides
exchange of messages between Camel infrastructure and JGroups
http://jgroups.org clusters. Maven users will need to add t

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/JiBX[JiBX] +

JiBX Available as of Camel 2.6 JiBX is a Data Format which uses the JiBX
library http://jibx.sourceforge.net to marshal and unmarshal Java
objects to and from XML. // lets turn Object messages into XML then send
to MQSeries from("activemq:My.Queue"). mars

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Jing[Jing] +

Jing Component The Jing component uses the Jing Library
http://www.thaiopensource.com/relaxng/jing.html to perform XML
validation of the message body using either RelaxNG XML Syntax
http://relaxng.org/ RelaxNG Compact Syntax
http://relaxng.org/compact-tut

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/JIRA[JIRA] +

JIRA Available as of Camel 2.15 The JIRA component interacts with the
JIRA API by encapsulating Atlassian's REST Java Client for JIRA
https://marketplace.atlassian.com/plugins/com.atlassian.jira.jira-rest-java-client.
It currently provides polling for new

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/JMS[JMS] +

JMS Component If you are using Apache ActiveMQ
http://activemq.apache.org/, you should prefer the ActiveMQ component as
it has been optimized for ActiveMQ. All of the options and samples on
this page are also valid for the ActiveMQ component. See section

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/JMS+Questions[JMS
Questions] +

Questions on using the JMS endpoints in Camel

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/JMX[JMX] +

JMX Component Available as of Camel 2.6 Standard JMX Consumer
Configuration Component allows consumers to subscribe to an mbean's
Notifications. The component supports passing the Notification object
directly through the Exchange or serializing it to XML

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/JMX+Component+Example[JMX
Component Example] +

JMX Component Example Available as of Camel 2.6 The example is included
in the distribution at examples/camel-example-jmx. It contains a
README.txt file with details how to use and run it. The routes This
example has 2 routes: 1. A route that calls a upda

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/JNDI[JNDI] +

JNDI Camel will use JNDI as the default Registry implementation if you
do not use Spring. This means that using a DefaultCamelContext will try
and create a JndiRegistry
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/impl/JndiReg

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/JOLT[JOLT] +

JOLT Component Available as of Camel 2.16 The jolt: component allows you
to process a JSON messages using an JOLT
http://bazaarvoice.github.io/jolt/ specification. This can be ideal when
doing JSON to JSON transformation. Maven users will need to add the

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/JPA[JPA] +

JPA Component The jpa component enables you to store and retrieve Java
objects from persistent storage using EJB 3's Java Persistence
Architecture (JPA), which is a standard interface layer that wraps
Object/Relational Mapping (ORM) products such as OpenJ

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Jsch[Jsch] +

Jsch The camel-jsch component supports the SCP protocol
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secure_copy using the Client API of the
Jsch http://www.jcraft.com/jsch/ project. Jsch is already used in camel
by the FTP component for the sftp: protocol. Maven users w

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/JSON[JSON] +

JSON JSON is a Data Format to marshal and unmarshal Java objects to and
from JSON http://www.json.org/. For JSON to object marshalling, Camel
provides integration with three popular JSON libraries: The XStream
library http://xstream.codehaus.org/ and Jett

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/JSonPath[JSonPath] +

JSonPath Available as of Camel 2.13 Camel supports JSonPath
https://code.google.com/p/json-path/ to allow using Expression or
Predicate on JSON messages. from("queue:books.new") .choice()
.when().jsonpath("$.store.book[?(@.price < 10)]") .to("jms:queue:bo

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/JT400[JT400] +

JT/400 Component The jt400 component allows you to exchanges messages
with an AS/400 system using data queues. Maven users will need to add
the following dependency to their pom.xml for this component:
<dependency> <groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId> <art

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/JXPath[JXPath] +

JXPath Camel supports JXPath http://commons.apache.org/jxpath/ to allow
XPath expressions to be used on beans in an Expression or Predicate to
be used in the DSL or Xml Configuration. For example you could use
JXPath to create an Predicate in a Message Fi

[[k]]
[[index-K]]K
++++++++++++

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Kafka[Kafka] +

Kafka Component Available as of Camel 2.13 The kafka: component is used
for communicating with Apache Kafka http://kafka.apache.org/ message
broker. Maven users will need to add the following dependency to their
pom.xml for this component. <dependency> <g

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Karaf[Karaf] +

Karaf Support Apache Camel is designed to work nicely inside Apache
Karaf http://karaf.apache.org OSGi container. It includes: Camel
features descriptor allowing to easily and quickly install Camel in
Karaf. Karaf commands allowing you to view, start, s

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Kestrel[Kestrel] +

Kestrel Component The Kestrel component allows messages to be sent to a
Kestrel https://github.com/robey/kestrel queue, or messages to be
consumed from a Kestrel queue. This component uses the spymemcached
http://code.google.com/p/spymemcached/ client for

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Krati[Krati] +

Krati Component Available as of Camel 2.9 This component allows the use
krati datastores and datasets inside Camel. Krati is a simple persistent
data store with very low latency and high throughput. It is designed for
easy integration with read-write-inte

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Kubernetes[Kubernetes] +

Kubernetes Component Available as of Camel 2.17 The Kubernetes component
is a component for integrating your application with Kubernetes
standalone or on top of Openshift. Maven users will need to add the
following dependency to their pom.xml for this co

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Kura[Kura] +

Eclipse Kura component Kura component is available starting from Camel
2.15. This documentation page covers the integration options of Camel
with the Eclipse Kura https://eclipse.org/kura/ M2M gateway. The common
reason to deploy Camel routes into the Ec

[[l]]
[[index-L]]L
++++++++++++

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Language[Language] +

Language Available as of Camel 2.5 The language component allows you to
send Exchange to an endpoint which executes a script by any of the
supported Languages in Camel. By having a component to execute language
scripts, it allows more dynamic routing capa

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Languages[Languages] +

Languages To support flexible and powerful Enterprise Integration
Patterns Camel supports various Languages to create an Expression or
Predicate within either the Routing Domain Specific Language or the Xml
Configuration. When creating predicates (express

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Languages+Supported[Languages
Supported] +

Bean Language for using Java for expressions Constant the unified EL
from JSP and JSF Header JSonPath JXPath Mvel OGNL Ref Language
ExchangeProperty / Property Scripting Languages such as BeanShell
JavaScript Groovy Python PHP Ruby Simple File Language Sp

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/LDAP[LDAP] +

LDAP Component The ldap component allows you to perform searches in LDAP
servers using filters as the message payload. This component uses
standard JNDI (javax.naming package) to access the server. Maven users
will need to add the following dependency to

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/LevelDB[LevelDB] +

LevelDB Available as of Camel 2.10 Leveldb
https://code.google.com/p/leveldb/ is a very lightweight and embedable
key value database. It allows together with Camel to provide persistent
support for various Camel features such as Aggregator. Current featur

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Lifecycle[Lifecycle] +

Camel Lifecycle Camel uses a simple lifecycle interface called Service
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/Service.html
which has a single start() and stop() method. Various classes implement
Service such as CamelCont

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/LinkedIn[LinkedIn] +

LinkedIn Component Available as of Camel 2.14 The LinkedIn component
provides access to all of LinkedIn REST APIs documented at
https://developer.linkedin.com/rest https://developer.linkedin.com/rest.
LinkedIn uses OAuth2.0 for all client application aut

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/List[List] +

List Component deprecated: is renamed to the Browse component in Camel
2.0 The List component provides a simple BrowsableEndpoint which can be
useful for testing, visualisation tools or debugging. The exchanges sent
to the endpoint are all available to be

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Load+Balance+for+existing+Messaging+Service[Load
Balance for existing Messaging Service] +

Load Balance for Existing Messaging Service This is a sample to show how
we can change our existing messaging service for requirement or
improvement. Here we use a load balance support as example. Build the
sample Imagine that we have a message handling s

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Load+Balancer[Load
Balancer] +

Load Balancer The Load Balancer Pattern allows you to delegate to one of
a number of endpoints using a variety of different load balancing
policies. Built-in load balancing policies Camel provides the following
policies out-of-the-box: Policy Description

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/LoadBalancing+Mina+Example[LoadBalancing
Mina Example] +

Load balancing using Mina example This example shows how you can easily
use the Camel-MINA component to design a solution allowing for
distributing message workload onto several servers. These servers are
simple TCP/IP servers created by the Apache MINA f

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Loading+routes+from+XML+files[Loading
routes from XML files] +

Loading routes from XML files Available as of Camel 2.6 This cookbook
shows how to load and add routes from XML files into an existing
CamelContext. When adding routes as shown on this page, the routes is
isolated and cannot re-use any existing onExceptio

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Loan+Broker+Example[Loan
Broker Example] +

Loan Broker Example This example shows how to use Camel to implement the
EIP's loan broker example
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/ComposedMessagingExample.html.
The example has two versions,one for JMS, one for webservice one. The
JMS versio

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Log[Log] +

Log Component The log: component logs message exchanges to the
underlying logging mechanism. Uses Commons Logging URI format
log:loggingCategory[?options] Where loggingCategory is the name of the
logging category to use. You can append query options to th

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/LogEIP[LogEIP] +

Log How can I log the processing of a Message? Camel provides many ways
to log the fact that you are processing a message. Here are just a few
examples: You can use the Log component which logs the Message content.
You can use the Tracer which trace logs

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Logging+Questions[Logging
Questions] +

Questions on logging output from Camel to a console, using the Log
endpoint or JDK 1.4 logging or Log4j etc

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Loop[Loop] +

Loop The Loop allows for processing a message a number of times,
possibly in a different way for each iteration. Useful mostly during
testing. Notice by default the loop uses the same exchange throughout
the looping. So the result from the previous iterat

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Lucene[Lucene] +

Lucene (Indexer and Search) Component Available as of Camel 2.2 The
lucene component is based on the Apache Lucene project. Apache Lucene is
a powerful high-performance, full-featured text search engine library
written entirely in Java. For more details a

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Lumberjack[Lumberjack] +

Camel Lumberjack Component Available as of Camel 2.18 The Lumberjack
component retrieves logs sent over the network using the Lumberjack
protocol, from Filebeat
https://www.elastic.co/fr/products/beats/filebeat for instance. The
network communication can

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/LZF+Data+Format[LZF
Data Format] +

The LZF Data Format
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Data+Format is a
message compression and de-compression format. It uses the LZF deflate
algorithm. Messages marshalled using LZF compression can be unmarshalled
using LZF decompressio

[[m]]
[[index-M]]M
++++++++++++

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Mail[Mail] +

Mail Component The mail component provides access to Email via Spring's
Mail support and the underlying JavaMail system. Maven users will need
to add the following dependency to their pom.xml for this component:
<dependency> <groupId>org.apache.camel</gro

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Mailing+Lists[Mailing
Lists] +

The following mailing lists are available. Before posting you might want
to read the Support page before posting to the mailing list. Mailing
Lists You should post and subscriber to the Camel User List for all your
questions on using Camel, or how to do X

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Management+Example[Management
Example] +

Management Example Available as of Camel 2.1 This is a new example we
added in Camel 2.1 as a little example of the new and overhauled JMX
Management we did. The example is included in the distribution at
examples/camel-example-management. It contains a R

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Manual[Manual] +

Camel Manual There are a number of PDFs of the Camel Manual which is
made up of lots of the Documentation available here
http://camel.apache.org/manual http://camel.apache.org/manual You can
download a specific version here Manual Versions Camel Manual 2.

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Manual+Downloads[Manual
Downloads] +

Manual

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Maven+2+snapshot+repository+in+pom[Maven
2 snapshot repository in pom] +

Camel In your pom.xml file you can add the Maven 2 snapshot repository
if you want to try out the xxx-SNAPSHOT versions: <repository>
<id>apache.snapshots</id> <name>Apache Development Snapshot
Repository</name> <url>https://repository.apache.org/content/

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/MDC+logging[MDC
logging] +

MDC logging Available as of Camel 2.7 From Camel 2.7: Camel uses the
SLF4J http://www.slf4j.org/ logging framework. This allows Camel to
support MDC logging http://www.slf4j.org/api/org/slf4j/MDC.html. For
more information about about MDC logging see the

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Memory+leak+when+adding+and+removing+routes+at+runtime[Memory
leak when adding and removing routes at runtime] +

Memory leak when adding and removing routes at runtime If you add and
remove many routes at runtime, then take notice that JMX may take up
memory when routes is added. As Camel cannot 100% reclaim all mbeans
when removing a route (some resources may be sh

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Merging+commits+from+trunk+to+fixes+branch[Merging
commits from trunk to fixes branch] +

The Camel 2.x branches are here:
https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/camel/branches/
https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/camel/branches/ What should be merged
The idea is to be able to apply bug fixes and backwards compatible
improvements and new features to ou

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Message[Message] +

Message Camel supports the Message
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/Message.html from the EIP
patterns using the Message
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/Message.html
interface. http://www.enterpriseint

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Message+Bus[Message
Bus] +

Message Bus Camel supports the Message Bus
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/PointToPointChannel.html
from the EIP patterns. You could view Camel as a Message Bus itself as
it allows producers and consumers to be decoupled. http://www.enterpris

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Message+Channel[Message
Channel] +

Message Channel Camel supports the Message Channel
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/MessageChannel.html from
the EIP patterns. The Message Channel is an internal implementation
detail of the Endpoint http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Message+Dispatcher[Message
Dispatcher] +

Message Dispatcher Camel supports the Message Dispatcher
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/MessageDispatcher.html from
the EIP patterns using various approaches.
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/img/MessageDispatcher.gif
You can use

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Message+Endpoint[Message
Endpoint] +

Message Endpoint Camel supports the Message Endpoint
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/MessageEndpoint.html from
the EIP patterns using the Endpoint
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/Endpoint.html
interfa

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Message+Filter[Message
Filter] +

Message Filter The Message Filter
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/Filter.html from the EIP
patterns allows you to filter messages
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/img/MessageFilter.gif The
following example shows how to create a M

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Message+History[Message
History] +

Message History The Message History
http://www.eaipatterns.com/MessageHistory.html from the EIP patterns
allows for analyzing and debugging the flow of messages in a loosely
coupled system. http://www.eaipatterns.com/img/MessageHistory.gif
Attaching a Mes

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Message+Router[Message
Router] +

Message Router The Message Router
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/MessageRouter.html from the
EIP patterns allows you to consume from an input destination, evaluate
some predicate then choose the right output destination.
http://www.enterpris

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Message+Translator[Message
Translator] +

Message Translator Camel supports the Message Translator
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/MessageTranslator.html from
the EIP patterns by using an arbitrary Processor in the routing logic,
by using a bean to perform the transformation, or by u

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Messaging+Gateway[Messaging
Gateway] +

Messaging Gateway Camel has several endpoint components that support the
Messaging Gateway
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/MessagingGateway.html from
the EIP patterns.
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/img/MessagingGatewaySolution.

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Messaging+Mapper[Messaging
Mapper] +

Messaging Mapper Camel supports the Messaging Mapper
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/MessagingMapper.html from
the EIP patterns by using either Message Translator pattern or the Type
Converter module. http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Metrics+Component[Metrics
Component] +

Metrics Component Available as of Camel 2.14 The metrics: component
allows to collect various metrics directly from Camel routes. Supported
metric types are Metrics Component, Metrics Component, Metrics Component
and Metrics Component. Metrics http://metr

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/MIME-Multipart[MIME-Multipart] +

Available as of Camel 2.17 This data format that can convert a Camel
message with attachments into a Camel message having a MIME-Multipart
message as message body (and no attachments). The use case for this is
to enable the user to send attachments over e

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/MINA[MINA] +

MINA Component Deprecated This component is deprecated as the Apache
Mina 1.x project is EOL. Instead use MINA2 or Netty instead. The mina:
component is a transport for working with Apache MINA
http://mina.apache.org/ Maven users will need to add the foll

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/MINA2[MINA2] +

MINA 2 Component Available as of Camel 2.10 The mina2: component is a
transport for working with Apache MINA 2.x http://mina.apache.org/ Favor
using Netty as Netty is a much more active maintained and popular
project than Apache Mina currently is Be caref

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/MLLP[MLLP] +

available as of Camel 2.17 The MLLP component is specifically designed
to handle the nuances of the MLLP protocol and provide the functionality
required by Healthcare providers to communicate with other systems using
the MLLP protocol. The MLLP component

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Mock[Mock] +

Mock Component Testing Summary Include The Mock component provides a
powerful declarative testing mechanism, which is similar to jMock
http://www.jmock.org http://jmock.org in that it allows declarative
expectations to be created on any Mock endpoint befo

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/MongoDB[MongoDB] +

Camel MongoDB component Available as of Camel 2.10 According to
Wikipedia: "NoSQL is a movement promoting a loosely defined class of
non-relational data stores that break with a long history of relational
databases and ACID guarantees." NoSQL solutions ha

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/MongoDB+GridFS[MongoDB
GridFS] +

Camel MongoDB GridFS component Available as of Camel 2.17 Maven users
will need to add the following dependency to their pom.xml for this
component: <dependency> <groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId>
<artifactId>camel-mongodb-gridfs</artifactId> <version>x.

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/MQTT[MQTT] +

MQTT Component Available as of Camel 2.10 The mqtt: component is used
for communicating with MQTT http://mqtt.org compliant message brokers,
like Apache ActiveMQ http://activemq.apache.org or Mosquitto
http://mosquitto.org Maven users will need to add the

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/MSV[MSV] +

MSV Component The MSV component performs XML validation of the message
body using the MSV Library https://msv.dev.java.net/ and any of the
supported XML schema languages, such as XML Schema
http://www.w3.org/XML/Schema or RelaxNG XML Syntax http://relaxng

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Multicast[Multicast] +

Multicast The Multicast allows to route the same message to a number of
endpoints and process them in a different way. The main difference
between the Multicast and Splitter is that Splitter will split the
message into several pieces but the Multicast wil

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Mustache[Mustache] +

Mustache Available as of Camel 2.12 The mustache: component allows for
processing a message using a Mustache http://mustache.github.io/
template. This can be ideal when using Templating to generate responses
for requests. Maven users will need to add the

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Mvel[Mvel] +

Mvel Camel allows Mvel to be used as an Expression or Predicate the DSL
or Xml Configuration. You could use Mvel to create an Predicate in a
Message Filter or as an Expression for a Recipient List You can use Mvel
dot notation to invoke operations. If you

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/MVEL+Component[MVEL
Component] +

MVEL Component Available as of Camel 2.12 The mvel: component allows you
to process a message using an MVEL http://mvel.codehaus.org/ template.
This can be ideal when using Templating to generate responses for
requests. Maven users will need to add the fo

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/MyBatis[MyBatis] +

MyBatis Available as of Camel 2.7 The mybatis: component allows you to
query, poll, insert, update and delete data in a relational database
using MyBatis http://mybatis.org/. Maven users will need to add the
following dependency to their pom.xml for this

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/MyBatis+Example[MyBatis
Example] +

MyBatis Example Available as of Camel 2.12 This example is located in
the examples/camel-example-mybatis directory of the Camel distribution.
There is a README.txt file with instructions how to run it. If you use
maven then you can easily install the exam

[[n]]
[[index-N]]N
++++++++++++

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Nagios[Nagios] +

Nagios Available as of Camel 2.3 The Nagios component allows you to send
passive checks to Nagios http://nagios.org. Maven users will need to add
the following dependency to their pom.xml for this component:
<dependency> <groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/NATS[NATS] +

NATS Component NATS http://nats.io/ is a fast and reliable messaging
platform. Maven users will need to add the following dependency to their
pom.xml for this component. <dependency>
<groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId> <artifactId>camel-nats</artifactId

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Navigation[Navigation] +

Overview Home Download Getting Started FAQ Documentation User Guide
Manual Books Tutorials Examples Cookbook Architecture Enterprise
Integration Patterns DSL Components Data Format Languages Security
Security Advisories Search <form action="http://www.goo

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Netty[Netty] +

Netty Component Available as of Camel 2.3 This component is deprecated.
You should use Netty4. The netty component in Camel is a socket
communication component, based on the Netty http://netty.io/ project.
Netty is a NIO client server framework which enab

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Netty+HTTP[Netty
HTTP] +

Netty HTTP Component Available as of Camel 2.12 The netty-http component
is an extension to Netty component to facilitiate HTTP transport with
Netty. This camel component supports both producer and consumer
endpoints. This component is deprecated. You sho

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Netty+HTTP+Server+Example[Netty
HTTP Server Example] +

Netty HTTP Server Example Available as of Camel 2.12 This example is
located in the examples/camel-example-netty-http directory of the Camel
distribution. There is a README.txt file with instructions how to run
it. If you use maven then you can easily pac

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Netty4[Netty4] +

Netty Component Available as of Camel 2.14 The netty4 component in Camel
is a socket communication component, based on the Netty http://netty.io/
project version 4. Netty is a NIO client server framework which enables
quick and easy development of network

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Netty4+HTTP[Netty4
HTTP] +

Netty4 HTTP Component Available as of Camel 2.14 The netty4-http
component is an extension to Netty4 component to facilitiate HTTP
transport with Netty4. This camel component supports both producer and
consumer endpoints. Netty is stream based, which mean

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/News[News] +

News

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/NMR[NMR] +

NMR Component The nmr component is an adapter to the Normalized Message
Router (NMR) in ServiceMix http://servicemix.apache.org/home.html, which
is intended for use by Camel applications deployed directly into the
OSGi container. You can exchange objects

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Normalizer[Normalizer] +

Normalizer Camel supports the Normalizer
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/Normalizer.html from the
EIP patterns by using a Message Router in front of a number of Message
Translator instances.
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/img/No

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/NotifyBuilder[NotifyBuilder] +

NotifyBuilder Available from Camel 2.2 The NotifyBuilder is a builder
from the org.apache.camel.builder package which allows you to build
expressions and then test or wait for that condition to occur. The
expressions is based around notifications about Ex

[[o]]
[[index-O]]O
++++++++++++

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/OGNL[OGNL] +

OGNL Camel allows OGNL http://commons.apache.org/proper/commons-ognl/ to
be used as an Expression or Predicate the DSL or Xml Configuration. You
could use OGNL to create an Predicate in a Message Filter or as an
Expression for a Recipient List You can use

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/OldLinks[OldLinks] +

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Olingo2[Olingo2] +

Olingo2 Component Available as of Camel 2.14 The Olingo2 component
utilizes Apache Olingo http://olingo.apache.org/ version 2.0 APIs to
interact with OData 2.0 and 3.0 compliant services. A number of popular
commercial and enterprise vendors and products

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/OnCompletion[OnCompletion] +

OnCompletion Camel has this concept of a Unit of Work that encompass the
Exchange. The unit of work among others supports synchronization
callbacks that are invoked when the Exchange is complete. The callback
API is defined in org.apache.camel.spi.Synchro

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Openshift[Openshift] +

Openshift Component Available as of Camel 2.14 The openshift component
is a component for managing your OpenShift https://www.openshift.com/
applications. Maven users will need to add the following dependency to
their pom.xml for this component: <depende

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/OptaPlanner[OptaPlanner] +

OptaPlanner Available as of Camel 2.13 The optaplanner: component solves
the planning problem contained in a message with OptaPlanner
http://www.optaplanner.org/. For example: feed it an unsolved Vehicle
Routing problem and it solves it. The component sup

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Overview[Overview] +

[[p]]
[[index-P]]P
++++++++++++

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Paho[Paho] +

Paho Component Available as of Camel 2.16 Paho component provides
connector for the MQTT messaging protocol using the Eclipse Paho
https://eclipse.org/paho/ library. Paho is one of the most popular MQTT
libraries, so if you would like to integrate it w

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Parallel+Processing+and+Ordering[Parallel
Processing and Ordering] +

Parallel Processing and Ordering It is a common requirement to want to
use parallel processing of messages for throughput and load balancing,
while at the same time process certain kinds of messages in order. How
to achieve parallel processing You can sen

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Parameter+Binding+Annotations[Parameter
Binding Annotations] +

Parameter Binding Annotations The annotations below are all part of
camel-core and thus does not require camel-spring or Spring. These
annotations can be used with the Bean component or when invoking beans
in the DSL Annotations can be used to define an E

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Pax-Logging[Pax-Logging] +

PaxLogging component Available in Camel 2.6 The paxlogging component can
be used in an OSGi environment to receive PaxLogging
http://wiki.ops4j.org/display/paxlogging/Pax+Logging events and process
them. Dependencies Maven users need to add the following

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/PDF[PDF] +

PDF Available as of Camel 2.16.0 The PDF: components provides the
ability to create, modify or extract content from PDF documents. This
component uses Apache PDFBox https://pdfbox.apache.org/ as underlying
library to work with PDF documents. In order to u

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/PDF+Documentation+Guide[PDF
Documentation Guide] +

Table of Contents <ul class="toc"> <li class="frontmatter"><a
href="#toc">Table of Contents</a></li> <li class="frontmatter"><a
href="#preface">Preface</a></li> <li class="chapter"><a
href="#chapter-tables-and-figures">Captioned Tables and Figures</a> <ul

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/PGEvent[PGEvent] +

PGEvent Component (PostgresSQL Event) This is a component for Apache
Camel which allows for Producing/Consuming PostgreSQL events related to
the LISTEN/NOTIFY commands added since PostgreSQL 8.3. Maven users will
need to add the following dependency to th

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/PHP[PHP] +

PHP Camel supports PHP http://www.php.net/ among other Scripting
Languages to allow an Expression or Predicate to be used in the DSL or
Xml Configuration. To use a PHP expression use the following Java code
... php("somePHPExpression") ... For example you

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Pipes+and+Filters[Pipes
and Filters] +

Pipes and Filters Camel supports the Pipes and Filters
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/PipesAndFilters.html from
the EIP patterns in various ways.
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/img/PipesAndFilters.gif
With Camel you can split y

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Pluggable+Class+Resolvers[Pluggable
Class Resolvers] +

Pluggable Class Resolvers Available since Camel 2.0 Camel provides
pluggable class resolvers allowing third party platforms and contains to
provide their own resolvers in case the default ones does not work on
their platform. For example we provide a WebS

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Point+to+Point+Channel[Point
to Point Channel] +

Point to Point Channel Camel supports the Point to Point Channel
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/PointToPointChannel.html
from the EIP patterns using the following components SEDA for in-VM seda
based messaging JMS for working with JMS Queues

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Pojo[Pojo] +

Pojo Component The pojo: component is now just an alias for the Bean
component. Has been removed in Camel 2.0. Endpoint See Also

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/POJO+Consuming[POJO
Consuming] +

@Consume To consume a message you use the @Consume
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/Consume.html
annotation to mark a particular method of a bean as being a consumer
method. The uri of the annotation defines the Ca

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/POJO+Messaging+Example[POJO
Messaging Example] +

POJO Messaging Example Introduction This example shows that you don't
need to learn Camel's super cool DSLs if you don't want to. Camel has a
set of annotations that allow you to produce, consume or route messages
to endpoints. Requirements The example is

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/POJO+Producing[POJO
Producing] +

There are two different ways to send messages to any Camel Endpoint from
a POJO @EndpointInject To allow sending of messages from POJOs you can
use the @EndpointInject
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/EndpointInjec

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Polling+Consumer[Polling
Consumer] +

Polling Consumer Camel supports implementing the Polling Consumer
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/PollingConsumer.html from
the EIP patterns using the PollingConsumer
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/P

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Predicate[Predicate] +

Predicates Camel supports a pluggable interface called Predicate
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/Predicate.html
which can be used to integrate a dynamic predicate into Enterprise
Integration Patterns such as when

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Printer[Printer] +

Printer Component Available as of Camel 2.1 The printer component
provides a way to direct payloads on a route to a printer. Obviously the
payload has to be a formatted piece of payload in order for the
component to appropriately print it. The objective i

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Privacy+Policy[Privacy
Policy] +

Information about your use of this website is collected using server
access logs and a tracking cookie. The collected information consists of
the following: The IP address from which you access the website; The
type of browser and operating system you use

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Processor[Processor] +

Processor The Processor
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/Processor.html
interface is used to implement consumers of message exchanges or to
implement a Message Translator Using a processor in a route Once you
have

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/ProcessorFactory[ProcessorFactory] +

ProcessorFactory Available as of Camel 2.4 There is a
org.apache.camel.spi.ProcessorFactory which allows you to use a custom
factory for creating Processor based on the Camel routes. The factory
can also be used for manipulating the definitions before the

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/ProducerTemplate[ProducerTemplate] +

ProducerTemplate The ProducerTemplate interface allows you to send
message exchanges to endpoints in a variety of different ways to make it
easy to work with Camel Endpoint instances from Java code. It can be
configured with a default endpoint if you just

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Properties[Properties] +

Properties Component Available from Camel 2.3 URI format
properties:key[?options] Where key is the key for the property to be
looked up. Options Option Type Default Description cache boolean true
Whether or not to cache loaded properties. encoding String

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Property[Property] +

Property Expression Language The Property Expression Language allows you
to extract values of named exchange properties. From Camel 2.15 onwards
the property language has been renamed to exchangeProperty to avoid
ambiguity, confusion and clash with proper

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Protobuf[Protobuf] +

Protobuf - Protocol Buffers "Protocol Buffers - Google's data
interchange format" Available from Camel 2.2 Camel provides a Data
Format to serialse between Java and the Protocol Buffer protocol. The
project's site details why you may wish to choose this f

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Publish+Subscribe+Channel[Publish
Subscribe Channel] +

Publish Subscribe Channel Camel supports the Publish Subscribe Channel
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/PublishSubscribeChannel.html
from the EIP patterns using for example the following components: JMS
for working with JMS Topics for high per

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Python[Python] +

Python Camel supports Python http://www.python.org/ among other
Scripting Languages to allow an Expression or Predicate to be used in
the DSL or Xml Configuration. To use a Python expression use the
following Java code ... python("somePythonExpression") .

[[q]]
[[index-Q]]Q
++++++++++++

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Quartz[Quartz] +

Quartz Component The quartz: component provides a scheduled delivery of
messages using the Quartz Scheduler 1.x
http://www.quartz-scheduler.org/. Each endpoint represents a different
timer (in Quartz terms, a Trigger and JobDetail). If you are using Quart

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Quartz2[Quartz2] +

Quartz2 Component Available as of Camel 2.12.0 The quartz2: component
provides a scheduled delivery of messages using the Quartz Scheduler 2.x
http://www.quartz-scheduler.org/. Each endpoint represents a different
timer (in Quartz terms, a Trigger and Job

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Queue[Queue] +

Queue Component To avoid confusion with JMS queues, this component is
now deprecated in 1.1 onwards. Please use the SEDA component instead The
queue: component provides asynchronous SEDA
http://www.eecs.harvard.edu/~mdw/proj/seda/ behaviour so that messag

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Quickfix[Quickfix] +

QuickFIX/J Component The quickfix component adapts the QuickFIX/J
http://www.quickfixj.org/ FIX engine for using in Camel . This component
uses the standard Financial Interchange (FIX) protocol
http://www.fixprotocol.org/ for message transport. The quickf

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/QuickLinks[QuickLinks] +

Download | JavaDoc | Source | GitHub https://github.com/apache/camel/ |
Gitter https://gitter.im/apache/apache-camel | Support

[[r]]
[[index-R]]R
++++++++++++

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/RabbitMQ[RabbitMQ] +

RabbitMQ Component Available as of Camel 2.12 The rabbitmq: component
allows you produce and consume messages from RabbitMQ
http://www.rabbitmq.com/ instances. Using the RabbitMQ AMQP client, this
component offers a pure RabbitMQ approach over the generic

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/RCode[RCode] +

RCode Available as of Camel Extra 2.11 The rcode component supports the
integration of the statistics environment R http://www.r-project.org/
via Rserve http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/Rserve/Rserve.pdf
Dependency <dependency> <groupId>org.apache-e

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Recipient+List[Recipient
List] +

Recipient List The Recipient List
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/RecipientList.html from the
EIP patterns allows you to route messages to a number of dynamically
specified recipients.
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/img/Recipien

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/RecipientList+Annotation[RecipientList
Annotation] +

@RecipientList Annotation We support the use of @RecipientList on a bean
method to easily create a dynamic Recipient List using a Java method.
Simple Example using @Consume and @RecipientList package com.acme.foo;
public class RouterBean \{ @Consume(uri =

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/RedeliveryPolicy[RedeliveryPolicy] +

RedeliveryPolicy A redelivery policy defines rules when Camel Error
Handler perform redelivery attempts. For example you can setup rules
that state how many times to try redelivery, and the delay in between
attempts, and so forth. You can use redelivery p

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Ref[Ref] +

Ref Component The ref: component is used for lookup of existing
endpoints bound in the Registry. URI format ref:someName[?options] Where
someName is the name of an endpoint in the Registry (usually, but not
always, the Spring registry). If you are using t

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Ref+Language[Ref
Language] +

Ref Expression Language Available as of Camel 2.8 The Ref Expression
Language is really just a way to lookup a custom Expression from the
Registry. This is particular useable in XML DSLs. Example usage The
Splitter in XML DSL can utilize a custom expressi

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Registry[Registry] +

Registry Camel supports a pluggable Registry
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/spi/Registry.html
plugin strategy. This allows Camel to easily work with some kind of
registry like SimpleRegistry http://camel.apache.o

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Release+Guide[Release
Guide] +

How to create and announce a Camel release. This release guide is based
on the General guide for releasing Maven-based projects at Apache
http://maven.apache.org/developers/release/apache-release.html, so be
sure to check it out before continuing and meet

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Reports[Reports] +

Reports submitted to the Apache Board.

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Request+Reply[Request
Reply] +

Request Reply Camel supports the Request Reply
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/RequestReply.html from the
EIP patterns by supporting the Exchange Pattern on a Message which can
be set to InOut to indicate a request/reply. Camel Components the

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Resequencer[Resequencer] +

Resequencer The Resequencer
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/Resequencer.html from the
EIP patterns allows you to reorganise messages based on some comparator.
By default in Camel we use an Expression to create the comparator; so
that you can

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Rest[Rest] +

Rest Component Available as of Camel 2.14 The rest component allows to
define REST endpoints using the Rest DSL and plugin to other Camel
components as the REST transport. URI format
rest://method:path[:uriTemplate]?[options] URI Options Name Default Va

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Rest+DSL[Rest
DSL] +

Rest DSL Available as of Camel 2.14 Apache Camel offers a REST styled
DSL which can be used with Java or XML. The intention is to allow end
users to define REST services using a REST style with verbs such as GET,
POST, DELETE etc. How it works The Rest DS

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/REST+Swagger+Component[REST
Swagger Component] +

Available from Camel 2.19 The rest-swagger configures rest producers
from Swagger http://swagger.io/ (Open API) specification document and
delegates to a component implementing the RestProducerFactory interface.
Currently known working components are: HTT

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Restlet[Restlet] +

Restlet Component The Restlet component provides Restlet
http://www.restlet.org based endpoints for consuming and producing
RESTful resources. Maven users will need to add the following dependency
to their pom.xml for this component: <dependency> <groupId

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Return+Address[Return
Address] +

Return Address Camel supports the Return Address
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/ReturnAddress.html from the
EIP patterns by using the JMSReplyTo header.
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/img/ReturnAddressSolution.gif
For example w

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/RMI[RMI] +

RMI Component The rmi: component binds Exchanges to the RMI protocol
(JRMP). Since this binding is just using RMI, normal RMI rules still
apply regarding what methods can be invoked. This component supports
only Exchanges that carry a method invocation fr

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Route+Throttling+Example[Route
Throttling Example] +

Route Throttling Example Available as of Camel 2.1 About This example
shows how to use the new feature RoutePolicy to dynamically at runtime
to throttle routes based on metrics gathered by the current number of
inflight exchanges. What it means is that Ca

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Routebox[Routebox] +

Routebox Component Available as of Camel 2.6 The Routebox component will
be revisited in upcoming releases to see if it can be further
simplified, be more intuitive and user friendly. The related Context
component may be regardes as the simpler component.

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/RouteBuilder[RouteBuilder] +

RouteBuilder The RouteBuilder
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/builder/RouteBuilder.html
is a base class which is derived from to create routing rules using the
DSL. Instances of RouteBuilder are then added to the

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/RoutePolicy[RoutePolicy] +

RoutePolicy Available as of Camel 2.1 A route policy
org.apache.camel.spi.RoutePolicy is used to control route(s) at runtime.
For example you can use it to determine whether a route should be
running or not. However the policies can support any kind of us

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Routes[Routes] +

Routes Camel supports the definition of routing rules using a Java DSL
(domain specific language) which avoids the need for cumbersome XML
using a RouteBuilder. For example a simple route can be created as
follows. \{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Routing+Slip[Routing
Slip] +

Routing Slip The Routing Slip
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/RoutingTable.html from the
EIP patterns allows you to route a message consecutively through a
series of processing steps where the sequence of steps is not known at
design time and

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/RoutingSlip+Annotation[RoutingSlip
Annotation] +

@RoutingSlip Annotation As of Camel 2.4.0 we now support the use of
@RoutingSlip on a bean method to easily create a dynamic Routing Slip
using a Java method. Simple Example using @Consume and @RoutingSlip
package com.acme.foo; public class RouterBean \{ @

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/RSS[RSS] +

This page is outdated, for the current version see:
https://github.com/apache/camel/blob/master/components/camel-rss/src/main/docs/rss-component.adoc
https://github.com/apache/camel/blob/master/components/camel-rss/src/main/docs/rss-component.adoc
RSS Com

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Ruby[Ruby] +

Ruby Camel supports Ruby http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/ among other
Scripting Languages to allow an Expression or Predicate to be used in
the DSL or Xml Configuration. To use a Ruby expression use the following
Java code ... ruby("someRubyExpression") ... F

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Running+Camel+standalone[Running
Camel standalone] +

Is it possible to start Camel as a standalone application, without
embedding it in another application? Yes Camel can run standalone or in
any container. Running Standalone is as simple just to create a
CamelContext, add routes and start it. If you don't

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Running+Camel+standalone+and+have+it+keep+running[Running
Camel standalone and have it keep running] +

Running Camel standalone and have it keep running If you are using Camel
as a standalone Java application, then Camel provides a Main class you
can reuse to more easily boot up Camel and keep it running until the JVM
terminates, for example when pressing

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Running+Examples[Running
Examples] +

Running Examples This section walks you through running the examples
which are shipped with a binary distribution. Before you start First you
need to Download a binary distribution. To run the demos with maven, you
need to download and install Apache Mave

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Running+RAT[Running
RAT] +

Running RAT There is a tool called ARAT http://code.google.com/p/arat/
along with a maven RAT plugin http://mojo.codehaus.org/rat-maven-plugin/
which is very useful for checking the contents of releases and ensuring
we don't miss licenses, headers, notice

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Running+Unit+Tests[Running
Unit Tests] +

Testing Before you can run the tests you need to follow the steps for
Building. By default when you run the install goal in maven the unit
tests will all be run. mvn clean install If you want to run the
integration tests as well you can use the integratio

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/RX[RX] +

Camel RX Available as of Camel 2.11 The camel-rx library provides Camel
support for the Reactive Extensions https://rx.codeplex.com/ (RX) using
the RxJava https://github.com/Netflix/RxJava/wiki library so that: Camel
users can use the RxJava API http://ne

[[s]]
[[index-S]]S
++++++++++++

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Salesforce[Salesforce] +

Salesforce component Available as of Camel 2.12 This component supports
producer and consumer endpoints to communicate with Salesforce using
Java DTOs. There is a companion maven plugin Camel Salesforce Plugin
that generates these DTOs (see further below)

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Sampling[Sampling] +

Sampling Throttler Available as of Camel 2.1 A sampling throttler allows
you to extract a sample of the exchanges from the traffic through a
route. It is configured with a sampling period during which only a
single exchange is allowed to pass through. All

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/SAP+NetWeaver[SAP
NetWeaver] +

SAP NetWeaver Gateway component Available as of Camel 2.12 The
sap-netweaver integrates with the SAP NetWeaver Gateway
http://scn.sap.com/community/developer-center/netweaver-gateway using
HTTP transports. This camel component supports only producer endpo

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Scala+DSL[Scala
DSL] +

About the Scala DSL Scala http://www.scala-lang.org/ is a general
purpose programming language designed to express common programming
patterns in a concise, elegant, and type-safe way. It integrates very
well with the Java platform. Our Scala DSL implemen

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Scala+DSL+-+EIP[Scala
DSL - EIP] +

The Scala DSL supports every DSL from the Java DSL. On this page we have
examples for a number of the EIPs. You can check the unit test source
code
https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/camel/trunk/components/camel-scala/src/test/scala/
for the Scala Component

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Scala+DSL+-+Getting+Started[Scala
DSL - Getting Started] +

Just like the Java DSL, the Scala DSL has a RouteBuilder class
(org.apache.camel.scala.dsl.builder.RouteBuilder) that you can extend to
implement your own routes. This example shows two very simple routes:
From Camel 2.15 onwards use org.apache.camel.scal

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Scala+DSL+-+Supported+languages[Scala
DSL - Supported languages] +

Support for other languages inside the Scala DSL routes is delivered
through traits. The org.apache.camel.scala.dsl.languages package
currently offers traits to support XPath. To use any given language, you
can mix-in the trait when creating your RouteBui

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Scatter-Gather[Scatter-Gather] +

Scatter-Gather The Scatter-Gather
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/BroadcastAggregate.html
from the EIP patterns allows you to route messages to a number of
dynamically specified recipients and re-aggregate the responses back
into a single mes

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/ScheduledRoutePolicy[ScheduledRoutePolicy] +

ScheduledRoutePolicy Available as of Camel 2.6 A scheduled route policy
org.apache.camel.routepolicy.quartz.ScheduledRoutePolicy is an
extensible abstract policy that is used to provide camel route
scheduling capabilities at runtime. Scheduling of routes

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Scheduler[Scheduler] +

Scheduler Component Available as of Camel 2.15 The scheduler: component
is used to generate message exchanges when a scheduler fires. This
component is similar to the Timer component, but it offers more
functionality in terms of scheduling. Also this com

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Schematron[Schematron] +

Schematron Component Available as of Camel 2.14 Schematron
http://www.schematron.com/index.html is an XML-based language for
validating XML instance documents. It is used to make assertions about
data in an XML document and it is also used to express oper

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Scratch+Page[Scratch
Page] +

Scratch Page This page lets anyone edit it to test out the wiki - or put
docs here until we can grant you edit karma

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Script[Script] +

Script Available as of Camel 2.16 Is used to execute a script which does
not change the message (by default). This is useful when you need to
invoke some logic that are not in Java code such as JavaScript, Groovy
or any of the other Languages. The messa

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Scripting+Languages[Scripting
Languages] +

Scripting Languages Camel supports a number of scripting languages which
can be used to create an Expression or Predicate via the standard JSR
223 http://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=223 which is a standard part of Java
6. The following scripting languages ar

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Scripting+Languages+Context[Scripting
Languages Context] +

ScriptContext Options The JSR-223 scripting language's ScriptContext is
pre-configured with the following attributes all set at ENGINE_SCOPE.
Attribute Type Value camelContext org.apache.camel.CamelContext The
Camel Context. context org.apache.camel.Cam

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Security[Security] +

Security Camel offers several forms & levels of security capabilities
that can be utilized on camel routes. These various forms of security
may be used in conjunction with each other or separately. The broad
categories offered are Route Security - Authent

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Security+Advisories[Security
Advisories] +

2017 CVE-2017-12634 - Apache Camel's Castor unmarshalling operation is
vulnerable to Remote Code Execution attacks CVE-2017-12633 - Apache
Camel's Hessian unmarshalling operation is vulnerable to Remote Code
Execution attacks CVE-2017-5643 - Apache Camel'

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/SEDA[SEDA] +

SEDA Component The seda: component provides asynchronous SEDA
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Staged_event-driven_architecture behavior,
so that messages are exchanged on a BlockingQueue and consumers are
invoked in a separate thread from the producer. http

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Selective+Consumer[Selective
Consumer] +

Selective Consumer The Selective Consumer
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/MessageSelector.html from
the EIP patterns can be implemented in two ways
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/img/MessageSelectorSolution.gif
The first solutio

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Serialization[Serialization] +

Serialization Serialization is a Data Format which uses the standard
Java Serialization mechanism to unmarshal a binary payload into Java
objects or to marshal Java objects into a binary blob. For example the
following uses Java serialization to unmarshal

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Service+Activator[Service
Activator] +

Service Activator Camel has several endpoint components that support the
Service Activator
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/MessagingAdapter.html from
the EIP patterns.
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/img/MessagingAdapterSolution.

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/ServiceCall+EIP[ServiceCall
EIP] +

ServiceCall EIP Available as of Camel 2.18 The serviceCall EIP allows to
call remote services in a distributed system. The service to call is
looked up in a service registry of some sorts such as Kubernetes,
Consul, etcd, Zookeeper. The EIP separates the

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/ServiceNow[ServiceNow] +

ServiceNow Component Available as of Camel 2.18 The ServiceNow component
provides access to all of ServiceNow REST API
https://developer.servicenow.com/app.do#!/rest_api_doc?v=fuji. Maven
users will need to add the following dependency to their pom.xml f

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/ServicePool[ServicePool] +

ServicePool Available as of Camel 2.0 Camel supports pluggable pools for
services. At this time of write we have pools for: Producer The default
producer service pool is
org.apache.camel.impl.DefaultProducerServicePool and is used by default
in Camel for

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/SERVLET[SERVLET] +

Servlet Component The servlet: component provides HTTP based endpoints
for consuming HTTP requests that arrive at a HTTP endpoint that is bound
to a published Servlet. Maven users will need to add the following
dependency to their pom.xml for this compone

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Servlet+Tomcat+Example[Servlet
Tomcat Example] +

Servlet Tomcat Example Available as of Camel 2.7 This example is located
in the examples/camel-example-servlet-tomcat directory of the Camel
distribution. There is a README.txt file with instructions how to run
it. If you use maven then you can easily pac

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Servlet+Tomcat+No+Spring+Example[Servlet
Tomcat No Spring Example] +

Servlet Tomcat No Spring Example Available as of Camel 2.11 This example
is located in the examples/camel-example-servlet-tomcat-no-spring
directory of the Camel distribution. There is a README.txt file with
instructions how to run it. If you use maven th

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/ServletListener+Component[ServletListener
Component] +

ServletListener Component Available as of Camel 2.11 This component is
used for bootstrapping Camel applications in web applications. For
example beforehand people would have to find their own way of
bootstrapping Camel, or rely on 3rd party frameworks su

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Set+up+your+IDE[Set up
your IDE] +

Import settings and templates Eclipse Install the checkstyle plugin
http://marketplace.eclipse.org/content/checkstyle-plug via the Eclipse
Marketplace Import checkstyle settings from
etc/buildtools/src/main/resources/camel-checkstyle.xml Import the format

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Shiro+Security[Shiro
Security] +

Shiro Security Component Available as of Camel 2.5 The shiro-security
component in Camel is a security focused component, based on the Apache
Shiro security project. Apache Shiro is a powerful and flexible
open-source security framework that cleanly handl

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Should+I+deploy+Camel+inside+the+ActiveMQ+broker+or+in+another+application[Should
I deploy Camel inside the ActiveMQ broker or in another application] +

Should I deploy Camel inside the ActiveMQ broker or in another
application Whether you deploy the Enterprise Integration Patterns
inside the ActiveMQ Broker or in a separate application depends on your
requirements. Advantages of deploying EIP inside the

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Simple[Simple] +

Simple Expression Language The Simple Expression Language was a really
simple language when it was created, but has since grown more powerful.
It is primarily intended for being a really small and simple language
for evaluating Expressions and Predicates

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Simple+Jira+Bot[Simple
Jira Bot] +

Simple Jira Bot Example Available as of Camel 2.7 The example is
included in the distribution at examples/camel-example-simplejirabot. It
contains a README.txt file with details how to use and run it. The
routes This example has 1 route implemented in bot

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/SimpleScheduledRoutePolicy[SimpleScheduledRoutePolicy] +

SimpleScheduledRoutePolicy Available as of Camel 2.6
SimpleScheduledRoutePolicy is a ScheduledRoutePolicy that facilitates
route activation, de-activation, suspension and resumption of routes
based on a Quartz SimpleTrigger. Maven users will need to add a

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Sip[Sip] +

SIP Component Available as of Camel 2.5 The sip component in Camel is a
communication component, based on the Jain SIP implementation (available
under the JCP license). Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) is an
IETF-defined signaling protocol, widely used f

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Site[Site] +

This page contains the main navigation links to the parts which make up
the Site layout.

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Site+Update+Ideas[Site
Update Ideas] +

Rationale There is a growing sense in the community that the Camel Web
site needs some updating. The precipitating e-mail
http://camel.465427.n5.nabble.com/DISCUSS-Apache-Camel-website-facelift-td3202031.html#a3202031
cited a few key areas to look at: a n

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/SiteIndex[SiteIndex] +

\{index}\{index}

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/SiteMap[SiteMap] +

Documentation Documentation Community Community Developers Developers
Site Site

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/SJMS[SJMS] +

SJMS Component Available as of Camel 2.11 The Simple JMS Component, or
SJMS, is a JMS client for use with Camel that uses well known best
practices when it comes to JMS client creation and configuration. SJMS
contains a brand new JMS client API written ex

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/SJMS+Batch[SJMS
Batch] +

SJMS Batch Component Available as of Camel 2.16 SJMS Batch is a
specialized component for highly performant, transactional batch
consumption from a JMS queue. It can be thought of as a hybrid of a
consumer-only component and an aggregator. A common use ca

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Slack[Slack] +

Slack Component Available as of Camel 2.16 The slack component allows
you to connect to an instance of Slack http://www.slack.com/ and
delivers a message contained in the message body via a pre established
Slack incoming webhook https://api.slack.com/inco

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Smooks[Smooks] +

Smooks The camel-smooks component from Camel Extra
http://code.google.com/p/camel-extra/ has been removed. The Smooks
Library http://milyn.codehaus.org/Smooks provides a module that
integrates with Camel and we encourage end users to use that.

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/SMPP[SMPP] +

SMPP Component CamelSmppFinalStatusAvailable as of Camel 2.2 This
component provides access to an SMSC (Short Message Service Center) over
the SMPP http://smsforum.net/SMPP_v3_4_Issue1_2.zip protocol to send and
receive SMS. The JSMPP http://jsmpp.org lib

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/SNMP[SNMP] +

SNMP Component Available as of Camel 2.1 The snmp: component gives you
the ability to poll SNMP capable devices or receiving traps. Maven users
will need to add the following dependency to their pom.xml for this
component: <dependency> <groupId>org.apache

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/SOA+Patterns[SOA
Patterns] +

There is a pattern directory called SOA Patterns
http://www.soapatterns.org/ which lists a whole bunch of useful
patterns. This experimental wiki page allows us over time to build up a
list of SOA Patterns http://www.soapatterns.org/ which Camel does impl

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/SOAP[SOAP] +

SOAP DataFormat Available as of Camel 2.3 SOAP is a Data Format which
uses JAXB2 and JAX-WS annotations to marshal and unmarshal SOAP
payloads. It provides the basic features of Apache CXF without need for
the CXF Stack. SOAP 1.1 is supported by default.

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Solr[Solr] +

Solr Component Available as of Camel 2.9 The Solr component allows you
to interface with an Apache Lucene Solr http://lucene.apache.org/solr/
server (based on SolrJ 3.5.0). Maven users will need to add the
following dependency to their pom.xml for this co

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Sort[Sort] +

Sort Sort can be used to sort a message. Imagine you consume text files
and before processing each file you want to be sure the content is
sorted. Sort will by default sort the body using a default comparator
that handles numeric values or uses the string

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Source[Source] +

Apache Camel code repository was moved to git, The old svn repo will not
be updated. Web Browsing of git To browse via the web:
https://git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf?p=camel.git
https://git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf?p=camel.git Web Browing Using
FishE

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Spark-rest[Spark-rest] +

Spark-rest Component Available as of Camel 2.14 The Spark-rest component
allows to define REST endpoints using the Spark REST Java library
http://sparkjava.com/ (not to be mistaken with Apache Spark
http://spark.apache.org/) using the Rest DSL. This compo

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/SpEL[SpEL] +

Spring Expression Language (SpEL) Available as of Camel 2.7 Camel allows
SpEL
http://static.springsource.org/spring/docs/current/spring-framework-reference/htmlsingle/spring-framework-reference.html#expressions
to be used as an Expression or Predicate in

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Splitter[Splitter] +

Splitter The Splitter
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/Sequencer.html from the EIP
patterns allows you split a message into a number of pieces and process
them individually
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/img/Sequencer.gif You nee

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Splunk[Splunk] +

Splunk Component Available as of Camel 2.13 The Splunk component
provides access to Splunk
http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest, via the Splunk
provided client https://github.com/splunk/splunk-sdk-java Rest API,
allowing you to publish and s

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Spring[Spring] +

Spring Support Apache Camel is designed to work nicely with the Spring
Framework http://www.springframework.org/ in a number of ways. Camel
uses Spring Transactions as the default transaction handling in
components like JMS and JPA Camel works with Spring

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Spring+Boot[Spring
Boot] +

Spring Boot Available as of Camel 2.15 Spring Boot component provides
auto-configuration for Apache Camel. Our opinionated auto-configuration
of the Camel context auto-detects Camel routes available in the Spring
context and registers the key Camel utilit

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Spring+Boot+Example[Spring
Boot Example] +

Spring Boot Example The Spring Boot example
https://github.com/apache/camel/tree/master/examples/camel-example-spring-boot
shows how to work with the simple Camel application based on Spring
Boot. The example generates messages using timer trigger, writes

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Spring+Event[Spring
Event] +

Spring Event Component The spring-event: component provides access to
the Spring ApplicationEvent objects. This allows you to publish
ApplicationEvent objects to a Spring ApplicationContext or to consume
them. You can then use Enterprise Integration Patte

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Spring+Example[Spring
Example] +

Spring Example The spring example is a simple refactor of the first
example to show how to use the Spring approach to working with Camel. In
this example we just write RouteBuilder implementations, then we write a
Spring ApplicationContext XML file to con

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Spring+Java+Config[Spring
Java Config] +

Spring Java Config Spring started life using XML Config to wire beans
together. However some folks don't like using XML and would rather use
Java code which led to the creation of Guice along with the Spring
JavaConfig project. You can use either the XML

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Spring+Java+Config+Example[Spring
Java Config Example] +

Spring Java Config Example Want to run your jar file and supply a list
of packages / configuration classes and just see it run with Camel? Try
Main from org.apache.camel.spring which even supports command-line
flags. The spring java config example is a si

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Spring+LDAP[Spring
LDAP] +

Spring LDAP Component Available since Camel 2.11 The spring-ldap:
component provides a Camel wrapper for Spring LDAP
http://www.springsource.org/ldap. Maven users will need to add the
following dependency to their pom.xml for this component: <dependency>

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Spring+Neo4j[Spring
Neo4j] +

Spring Neo4j Component Available as of Camel Extra 2.11 The
camel-spring-neo4j library is provided by the Camel Extra
http://code.google.com/p/camel-extra/ project which hosts *GPL related
components for Camel. The neo4j: component allows you to treat Neo

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Spring+Redis[Spring
Redis] +

Spring Redis Component Available as of Camel 2.11 This component allows
sending and receiving messages from Redis http://http//redis.io/. Redis
is advanced key-value store where keys can contain strings, hashes,
lists, sets and sorted sets. In addition it

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Spring+Remoting[Spring
Remoting] +

Spring Remoting We support Spring Remoting
http://static.springframework.org/spring/docs/2.5.x/reference/remoting.html
in Camel. The implementing of Spring Remoting uses Camel as the
underlying transport mechanism. The nice thing about this approach is we

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Spring+Security[Spring
Security] +

Spring Security Available as of Camel 2.3 The camel-spring-security
component provides role-based authorization for Camel routes. It
leverages the authentication and user services provided by Spring
Security http://static.springsource.org/spring-security/

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Spring+Security+Example[Spring
Security Example] +

Spring Security Example The camel-spring-security module provides
authentication and authorization capabilities via Spring Security
http://static.springsource.org/spring-security/site/index.html. This
example shows you how to use this functionality to imp

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Spring+Testing[Spring
Testing] +

Spring Testing Testing is a crucial part of any development or
integration work. The Spring Framework offers a number of features that
makes it easy to test while using Spring for Inversion of Control which
works with JUnit 3.x, JUnit 4.x, and TestNG http

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Spring+Web+Services[Spring
Web Services] +

Spring Web Services Component Available as of Camel 2.6 The spring-ws:
component allows you to integrate with Spring Web Services
http://static.springsource.org/spring-ws/sites/1.5/. It offers both
client-side support, for accessing web services, and serv

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Spring+WS+Example[Spring
WS Example] +

Spring Web Services Example Available as of Camel 2.6 This example shows
how to expose a SOAP-based web service using Camel and Spring Web
Services. Running the example The example is included in the
distribution at examples/camel-example-spring-ws. To st

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Spring+XML+Extensions[Spring
XML Extensions] +

The Camel Spring XML Extensions allow you use a very concise XML syntax
to describe your Camel configuration when you are using spring to wire
together your application. The following is an example of what it looks
like: \{snippet:id=example|lang=xml|url=c

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Spring+XQuery+Example[Spring
XQuery Example] +

Spring XQuery Example The Spring XQuery example uses no Java code; its
configured purely using a Spring XML configuration file. It parsers some
files from a directory, transforms them using XQuery then sends them to
a message queue. To make it easy to loo

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/SpringBatch[SpringBatch] +

Spring Batch Component The spring-batch: component and support classes
provide integration bridge between Camel and Spring Batch
http://www.springsource.org/spring-batch infrastructure. Maven users
will need to add the following dependency to their pom.xm

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/SpringIntegration[SpringIntegration] +

Spring Integration Component The spring-integration: component provides
a bridge for Camel components to talk to spring integration endpoints
http://www.springsource.org/spring-integration. Maven users will need to
add the following dependency to their po

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/SQL[SQL] +

SQL Language The SQL support is added by JoSQL
http://josql.sourceforge.net/ and is primarily used for performing SQL
queries on in-memory objects. If you prefer to perform actual database
queries then check out the JPA component. Camel has both a SQL lan

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/SQL+Component[SQL
Component] +

SQL Component The sql: component allows you to work with databases using
JDBC queries. The difference between this component and JDBC component
is that in case of SQL the query is a property of the endpoint and it
uses message payload as parameters passed

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/SQL+Example[SQL
Example] +

SQL Example Available as of Camel 2.11 This example is located in the
examples/camel-example-sql directory of the Camel distribution. There is
a README.txt file with instructions how to run it. If you use maven then
you can easily compile and install the

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/SQL+Stored+Procedure[SQL
Stored Procedure] +

SQL Stored Procedure Component Available as of Camel 2.17 The
sql-stored: component allows you to work with databases using JDBC
Stored Procedure queries. This component is an extension to the SQL
Component but specialized for calling stored procedures. T

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/SSH[SSH] +

SSH Available as of Camel 2.10 The SSH component enables access to SSH
servers such that you can send an SSH command, and process the response.
Maven users will need to add the following dependency to their pom.xml
for this component: <dependency> <groupI

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/StAX[StAX] +

StAX Component Available as of Camel 2.9 The StAX component allows
messages to be process through a SAX ContentHandler
http://download.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/api/org/xml/sax/ContentHandler.html.
Another feature of this component is to allow to iterate o

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Stomp[Stomp] +

Stomp Component Available as of Camel 2.12 The stomp: component is used
for communicating with Stomp http://stomp.github.io/ compliant message
brokers, like Apache ActiveMQ http://activemq.apache.org or ActiveMQ
Apollo http://activemq.apache.org/apollo/ M

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Stream[Stream] +

Stream Component The stream: component provides access to the System.in,
System.out and System.err streams as well as allowing streaming of file
and URL. Maven users will need to add the following dependency to their
pom.xml for this component: <dependenc

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Stream+caching[Stream
caching] +

Stream caching While stream types (like StreamSource, InputStream and
Reader) are commonly used in messaging for performance reasons, they
also have an important drawback: they can only be read once. In order to
be able to work with message content multip

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/String[String] +

The String Data Format is a textual based format that supports encoding.
Options Option Default Description charset null To use a specific
charset for encoding. If not provided Camel will use the JVM default
charset. Marshal In this example we marshal the

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/StringTemplate[StringTemplate] +

String Template The string-template: component allows you to process a
message using a String Template http://www.stringtemplate.org/. This can
be ideal when using Templating to generate responses for requests. Maven
users will need to add the following d

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Stub[Stub] +

Stub Component Available as of Camel 2.10 The stub: component provides a
simple way to stub out any physical endpoints while in development or
testing, allowing you for example to run a route without needing to
actually connect to a specific SMTP or Http

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Support[Support] +

Getting Help If you are experiencing problems using Camel then please
report your problem to our mailing list. This allows the entire
community to help with your problem. If indeed a bug has been identified
in the Camel software, then document the problem

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Swagger[Swagger] +

Swagger Scala Component (deprecated) Available as of Camel 2.14 The Rest
DSL can be integrated with the camel-swagger module which is used for
exposing the REST services and their APIs using Swagger
http://swagger.io/. Maven users will need to add the fo

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Swagger+Java[Swagger
Java] +

Swagger Java Component Available as of Camel 2.16 The Rest DSL can be
integrated with the camel-swagger-java module which is used for exposing
the REST services and their APIs using Swagger http://swagger.io/. Maven
users will need to add the following d

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Syslog[Syslog] +

Syslog DataFormat Available as of Camel 2.6 The syslog dataformat is
used for working with RFC3164 http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3164.txt and
RFC5424 messages. This component supports the following: UDP consumption
of syslog messages Agnostic data format usi

[[t]]
[[index-T]]T
++++++++++++

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Tar+DataFormat[Tar
DataFormat] +

Available since Camel 2.18.0 The Tar File Data Format
https://github.com/apache/camel/blob/master/components/camel-tarfile/src/main/docs/data-format.html
is a message compression and de-compression format. Messages can be
marshalled (compressed) to Tar Fi

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Team[Team] +

This page lists who we are. By all means add yourself to the list - lets
sort it in alphabetical order Committers Name ID Organisation Aaron
Mulder ammulder Chariot Solutions Akitoshi Yoshida ay SAP Andrea
Cosentino acosentino Red Hat Antonin Stefanutti a

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Telegram[Telegram] +

Telegram Component Available as of Camel 2.18 The Telegram component
provides access to the Telegram Bot API
https://core.telegram.org/bots/api. It allows a Camel-based application
to send and receive messages by acting as a Bot, participating in direct
c

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Templating[Templating] +

Templating When you are testing distributed systems its a very common
requirement to have to stub out certain external systems with some stub
so that you can test other parts of the system until a specific system
is available or written etc. A great way t

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Test[Test] +

Test Component Testing Summary Include The test component extends the
Mock component to support pulling messages from another endpoint on
startup to set the expected message bodies on the underlying Mock
endpoint. That is, you use the test endpoint in a r

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Testing[Testing] +

Testing Testing is a crucial activity in any piece of software
development or integration. Typically Camel Riders use various different
technologies wired together in a variety of patterns with different
expression languages together with different forms

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Testing+a+release+candidate[Testing
a release candidate] +

When a release candidate has been cut, a vote is started, inviting all
members of the community to test the release candidate before actually
declaring it an official release. What/how to test before casting your
vote? Checking the distributables (tar.gz

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Testing+Summary+Include[Testing
Summary Include] +

Testing of distributed and asynchronous processing is notoriously
difficult. The Mock, Test and DataSet endpoints work great with the
Camel Testing Framework to simplify your unit and integration testing
using Enterprise Integration Patterns and Camel's l

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Threading+Model[Threading
Model] +

Threading Model Available as of Camel 2.3 The threading model in Camel
is based on leveraging the JDK concurrency API which provides thread
pools, named ExecutorService. Camel leverages thread pools in the
following places: several EIP patterns supports u

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Throttler[Throttler] +

Throttler The Throttler Pattern allows you to ensure that a specific
endpoint does not get overloaded, or that we don't exceed an agreed SLA
with some external service. Options Name Default Value Description
maximumRequestsPerPeriod Maximum number of re

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/TidyMarkup[TidyMarkup] +

TidyMarkup TidyMarkup is a Data Format that uses the TagSoup
http://www.ccil.org/~cowan/XML/tagsoup/ to tidy up HTML. It can be used
to parse ugly HTML and return it as pretty wellformed HTML. We had some
issues in our pdf Manual where we had some strange

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Timer[Timer] +

Timer Component The timer: component is used to generate message
exchanges when a timer fires You can only consume events from this
endpoint. URI format timer:name[?options] Where name is the name of the
Timer object, which is created and shared across en

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/ToAsync[ToAsync] +

ToAsync Available as of Camel 2.1 Unfortunately this feature did not
work out, and is going to be replaced with a new fully asynchronous
routing engine in Camel 2.4. ToAsync will be removed from Camel 2.4
onwards. Do not use this feature or prepare to mig

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Tokenizer[Tokenizer] +

Tokenizer The tokenizer language is a built-in language in camel-core,
which is most often used only with the Splitter EIP to split a message
using a token-based strategy. The tokenizer language is intended to
tokenize text documents using a specified del

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Tools[Tools] +

Tools This page gives a list of the various tools available for Camel
Camel Maven Tools Camel Maven Plugin for booting up Camel applications
directly in maven to test it Camel Maven Archetypes
http://camel.apache.org/camel-maven-archetypes.html for using

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Tracer[Tracer] +

Tracer Interceptor Implementing custom tracing via TracingInterceptor
has been deprecated. However turning tracing on via setTracing(true) is
okay. Camel's tracer interceptor can be used for logging, by default at
the INFO level, a route's execution. Th

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Tracer+Example[Tracer
Example] +

Tracer Example Introduction This example demonstrates the Tracer. Tracer
is a tracing feature build in camel core to log snapshots of Exchanges
while they are routed. This allows you to see: how a given Exchange was
routed a snapshot of the content of the

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Transactional+Client[Transactional
Client] +

Transactional Client Camel recommends supporting the Transactional
Client
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/TransactionalClient.html
from the EIP patterns using spring transactions.
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/img/Transactional

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/TransactionErrorHandler[TransactionErrorHandler] +

TransactionErrorHandler Available as of Camel 2.0 This is the new
default transaction error handler in Camel 2.0 onwards, used for
transacted routes. It uses the same base as the DefaultErrorHandler so
it has the same feature set as this error handler. By

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Transport[Transport] +

Transports Apache Camel supports a number of different plugable
componets for talking to different transports. The transports is
implement as Camel components. Components

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Try+Catch+Finally[Try
Catch Finally] +

Try ... Catch ... Finally Camel supports the Java equivalent of try ..
catch and finally directly in the DSL. It aims to work like its Java
sisters but with more power. Especially in Camel 2.0 where we gave this
feature an overhaul. In Camel we prefix the

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Tutorial+for+Camel+on+Google+App+Engine[Tutorial
for Camel on Google App Engine] +

Camel on Google App Engine Tutorial Overview Goal of this tutorial is to
get a non-trivial Camel application running on Google App Engine (GAE).
For developing that application the Camel Components for Google App
Engine are used. The example web applicati

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Tutorial+on+using+Camel+in+a+Web+Application[Tutorial
on using Camel in a Web Application] +

Tutorial on using Camel in a Web Application Camel has been designed to
work great with the Spring framework; so if you are already a Spring
user you can think of Camel as just a framework for adding to your
Spring XML files. So you can follow the usual S

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Tutorial-AXIS-Camel[Tutorial-AXIS-Camel] +

Tutorial using Axis 1.4 with Apache Camel This example has been removed
from Camel 2.9 onwards. Apache Axis 1.4 is a very old and unsupported
framework. We encourage users to use CXF instead of Axis. Prerequisites
This tutorial uses Maven 2 to setup the C

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Tutorial-Business-Partners[Tutorial-Business-Partners] +

Tutorial Business Partners This tutorial is a work in progress.
Background and Introduction Business Background So there's a company,
which we'll call Acme. Acme sells widgets, in a fairly unusual way.
Their customers are responsible for telling Acme what

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Tutorial-Example-ReportIncident[Tutorial-Example-ReportIncident] +

Tutorial - camel-example-reportincident Introduction Creating this
tutorial was inspired by a real life use-case I discussed over the phone
with a colleague. He was working at a client whom uses a heavy-weight
integration platform from a very large vendor

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Tutorial-Example-ReportIncident-Part1[Tutorial-Example-ReportIncident-Part1] +

Part 1 Prerequisites This tutorial uses the following frameworks: Maven
3.0.4 Apache Camel 2.10.0 Apache CXF 2.6.1 Spring 3.0.7 Note: The sample
project can be downloaded, see the resources section. Initial Project
Setup We want the integration to be a st

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Tutorial-Example-ReportIncident-Part2[Tutorial-Example-ReportIncident-Part2] +

Part 2 Adding Camel In this part we will introduce Camel so we start by
adding Camel to our pom.xml: <properties> ...
<camel-version>1.4.0</camel-version> </properties> <!-- camel -->
<dependency> <groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId> <artifactId>camel-core

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Tutorial-Example-ReportIncident-Part3[Tutorial-Example-ReportIncident-Part3] +

Part 3 Recap Lets just recap on the solution we have now: public class
ReportIncidentEndpointImpl implements ReportIncidentEndpoint \{ private
CamelContext camel; private ProducerTemplate template; public
ReportIncidentEndpointImpl() throws Exception \{ //

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Tutorial-Example-ReportIncident-Part4[Tutorial-Example-ReportIncident-Part4] +

Part 4 Introduction This section is about regular Camel. The examples
presented here in this section is much more in common of all the
examples we have in the Camel documentation. If you have been reading
the previous 3 parts then, this quote applies: you

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Tutorial-Example-ReportIncident-Part5[Tutorial-Example-ReportIncident-Part5] +

Part 5 ... Continued from Part 4 We continue from part 4 where we have
the routing in place. However as you might have noticed we aren't quiet
there yet with a nice solution, we are still coding to much. In this
part we will look into to address these two

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Tutorial-Example-ReportIncident-Part6[Tutorial-Example-ReportIncident-Part6] +

Part 6 ... Continued from Part 5 We continue from part 5 where we ended
up with a complete solution using routes defined in Java code. In this
last part of this tutorial we will define the route in XML instead. As I
am writing this, its been 4.5 years sin

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Tutorial-JmsRemoting[Tutorial-JmsRemoting] +

Tutorial on Spring Remoting with JMS This tutorial was kindly donated to
Apache Camel by Martin Gilday. Preface This tutorial aims to guide the
reader through the stages of creating a project which uses Camel to
facilitate the routing of messages from a

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Tutorial-OAuth[Tutorial-OAuth] +

Camel OAuth Tutorial Overview Goal of this tutorial is to demonstrate
how to implement an OAuth
http://code.google.com/apis/accounts/docs/OAuth.html consumer with
Apache Camel. In this tutorial, the OAuth consumer is a simple web
application running on Go

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/tutorial-osgi-camel-part1[tutorial-osgi-camel-part1] +

Introduction The focus of this Tutorial is to introduce you how you can
create, design a simple SOA solution using Camel and OSGI. Most of the
current and commercial SOA solutions rely on standards
XML/WSDL/BPMN/BPEL and Business Processes (designed throu

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/tutorial-osgi-camel-part2[tutorial-osgi-camel-part2] +

Introduction The purpose of this tutorial is not at all to teach you on
SOA but to draw your attention on points that the
developer(s)/deployer(s) will be confronted during the
design/development and release management phases. Designing a Service
Oriented

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/tutorial-osgi-camel-part2a[tutorial-osgi-camel-part2a] +

Transform existing projects into bundles To convert a project into a
bundle a couple of things/steps must be done : 1) Declare the project in
the maven pom.xml file as of type <packaging>bundle</packaging>, 2) Add
the maven felix plugin who will generate

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/tutorial-osgi-camel-part2b[tutorial-osgi-camel-part2b] +

Routing/Mediation service The routing/mediation between services/bundles
will be created using Camel Spring DSL language. We will describe its
creation/genesis step by step. First, create the file camel-context.xml
in the directory src/main/resources/META

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/tutorial-osgi-camel-part2c[tutorial-osgi-camel-part2c] +

Apache Wicket - web site The tutorial is almost finished. We have to
design the web page that we will use to consult the incidents published
in the database. The web framework that we will use is Apache Wicket
http://wicket.apache.org/. Step 1 : Web pages

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Tutorials[Tutorials] +

We have a number of tutorials as listed below. The tutorials often comes
with source code which is either available in the Camel Download or
attached to the wiki page. These tutorials listed below, is hosted at
Apache. We offer the Articles page where we

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Twitter[Twitter] +

Twitter Available as of Camel 2.10 The Twitter component enables the
most useful features of the Twitter API by encapsulating Twitter4J
http://twitter4j.org/. It allows direct, polling, or event-driven
consumption of timelines, users, trends, and direct m

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Twitter+Websocket+Blueprint+Example[Twitter
Websocket Blueprint Example] +

Twitter Websocket Blueprint Example Available as of Camel 2.12 This
example is located in the Camel distribution at
examples/camel-example-twitter-websocket-blueprint. The example is
demonstrating how to poll a constant feed of twitter searches and publis

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Twitter+Websocket+Example[Twitter
Websocket Example] +

Twitter Websocket Example Available as of Camel 2.10 This example is
located in the Camel distribution at
examples/camel-example-twitter-websocket. There is a Twitter Websocket
Blueprint Example for OSGi Blueprint users. The example is demonstrating
how t

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Type+Converter[Type
Converter] +

Type Converter Its very common when routing messages from one endpoint
to another to need to convert the body payloads from one type to another
such as to convert to and from the following common types File String
byte[] and ByteBuffer InputStream and Out

[[u]]
[[index-U]]U
++++++++++++

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Undertow[Undertow] +

Undertow Component Available as of Camel 2.16 The undertow component
provides HTTP-based endpoints for consuming and producing HTTP requests.
That is, the Undertow component behaves as a simple Web server. Undertow
can also be used as a http client which

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/uniVocity-parsers+formats[uniVocity-parsers
formats] +

uniVocity-parsers Available as of Camel 2.15.0 This Data Format uses
uniVocity-parsers http://www.univocity.com/pages/about-parsers for
reading and writing 3 kinds of tabular data text files: CSV (Comma
Separated Values), where the values are separated by

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Unsupported+Groovy+DSL+Features+on+Web+Console[Unsupported
Groovy DSL Features on Web Console] +

Unsupported Groovy DSL Features on Web Console Most of the DSL features
have been supported on Web Console, so you can view and edit in an easy
way. However, Web Console doesn't support all the features that you can
get from an IDE. Here will list and exp

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Upgrade+dependency+guide[Upgrade
dependency guide] +

How to upgrade a Camel dependency 1. Open an JIRA issue Open an JIRA
issue at https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/CAMEL
https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/CAMEL, if it does not already
exist. The issue type should be "Task". A sample can be found her

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/URIs[URIs] +

URIs Camel makes extensive use of URIs to allow you to refer to
endpoints which are lazily created by a Component if you refer to them
within Routes. Make sure to read How do I configure endpoints to learn
more about configuring endpoints. For example how

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/UrlRewrite[UrlRewrite] +

UrlRewrite Component Available as of Camel 2.11 The camel-urlrewrite
component allows to plugin url rewrite functionality to HTTP, HTTP4,
Jetty, or AHC components. This component integrates the UrlRewriteFilter
http://code.google.com/p/urlrewritefilter/ p

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/User+Guide[User
Guide] +

User Guide If you want to get more familiar with what Apache Camel has
to offer, please try the following resources: Wiki pages Getting Started
Longer Getting Started Guide Camel JAR Dependencies Camel Boot Working
with Camel and CDI Working with Camel an

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/User+Stories[User
Stories] +

User Stories This page is intended as a place to collect user stories
and feedback on Apache Camel. If you are using or have tried Apache
Camel please add an entry or comment; or post to the mailing list.
Company, Product, or Project Description Apache Ac

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Uses+Commons+Logging[Uses
Commons Logging] +

Camel uses sfl4j http://www.slf4j.org/ which allows you to configure
logging via, among others: Log4j http://logging.apache.org/log4j/
Logback http://logback.qos.ch/ JDK Util Logging logging
http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.4.2/docs/api/java/util/logging/packag

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Using+Camel+Questions[Using
Camel Questions] +

Questions on using Apache Camel

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Using+camel-core-tests.jar[Using
camel-core-tests.jar] +

Using camel-core-tests.jar The camel-core-tests.jar is not for usage for
Camel end users. This JAR is only used internally by Camel itself when
it tests the same unit tests using different DSL such as Spring XML,
Blueprint XML, Scala DSL etc. End users wh

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Using+CamelProxy[Using
CamelProxy] +

Using CamelProxy Camel allows you to proxy a producer sending to an
Endpoint by a regular interface. Then when clients using this interface
can work with it as if its regular java code but in reality its proxied
and does a Request Reply to a given endpoin

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Using+Exchange+Pattern+Annotations[Using
Exchange Pattern Annotations] +

Using Exchange Pattern Annotations When working with POJO Producing or
Spring Remoting you invoke methods which typically by default are InOut
for Request Reply. That is there is an In message and an Out for the
result. Typically invoking this operation w

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Using+getIn+or+getOut+methods+on+Exchange[Using
getIn or getOut methods on Exchange] +

Message exchange patterns and the Exchange object The Camel API is
influenced by APIs such as JBI specification
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java_Business_Integration, CXF
http://cxf.apache.org/ which defines a concept called Message Exchange
Patterns (ME

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Using+Languages+In+IDE[Using
Languages In IDE] +

To use different expression and predicates in your IDE you need to
perform a static import of the builder class for the language(s) you
wish to use. Language(s) Builder class to import Scripting Languages
such as BeanShell, JavaScript, Groovy, PHP, Python

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Using+OSGi+blueprint+with+Camel[Using
OSGi blueprint with Camel] +

Using OSGi blueprint with Camel Available as of Camel 2.4 A custom XML
namespace for Blueprint has been created to let you leverage the nice
XML dialect. Given Blueprint custom namespaces are not standardized yet,
this namespace can only be used on the Ap

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Using+PropertyPlaceholder[Using
PropertyPlaceholder] +

Using PropertyPlaceholder Available as of Camel 2.3 Camel now provides a
new PropertiesComponent in camel-core which allows you to use property
placeholders when defining Camel Endpoint URIs. This works much like you
would do if using Spring's <property-p

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Using+This+Pattern[Using
This Pattern] +

Using This Pattern If you would like to use this EIP Pattern then please
read the Getting Started, you may also find the Architecture useful
particularly the description of Endpoint and URIs. Then you could try
out some of the Examples first before trying

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/UuidGenerator[UuidGenerator] +

UuidGenerator Starting with Camel 2.5, Camel supports 3rd party UUID
generator(s). This is useful, if e.g. your messaging provider does not
support UUID's with a length of 36 characters (like Websphere MQ).
Another useful scenario is to use a simple count

[[v]]
[[index-V]]V
++++++++++++

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Validate[Validate] +

Validate Available as of Camel 2.3 Validate uses an expression or
predicates to validate the contents of a message. It is useful for
ensuring that messages are valid before attempting to process them. You
can use the validate DSL with all kind of Predicat

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Validation[Validation] +

Validation Component The Validation component performs XML validation of
the message body using the JAXP Validation API and based on any of the
supported XML schema languages, which defaults to XML Schema
http://www.w3.org/XML/Schema Note that the Jing co

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Velocity[Velocity] +

Velocity The velocity: component allows you to process a message using
an Apache Velocity http://velocity.apache.org/ template. This can be
ideal when using Templating to generate responses for requests. Maven
users will need to add the following dependen

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Vertx[Vertx] +

Vertx Component Available as of Camel 2.12 The vertx component is for
working with the Vertx http://vertx.io/ EventBus
http://vertx.io/core_manual_js.html#the-event-bus. The vertx EventBus
http://vertx.io/core_manual_js.html#the-event-bus sends and receiv

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/VirtualBox[VirtualBox] +

VirtualBox Component Available as of Camel 2.11.0 This component uses
the web-service API of VirtualBox
https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/VirtualBox to execute vbox commands and
consume events from virtual machines. Options Name Default Value
Description co

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Visualisation[Visualisation] +

Visualisation This functionality is deprecated and to be removed in
future Camel releases. Camel supports the visualisation of your
Enterprise Integration Patterns using the GraphViz http://graphviz.org
DOT files which can either be rendered directly vi

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/VM[VM] +

VM Component The vm: component provides asynchronous SEDA
http://www.eecs.harvard.edu/~mdw/proj/seda/ behavior, exchanging
messages on a BlockingQueue
http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/api/java/util/concurrent/BlockingQueue.html
and invoking consumers i

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/VTD-XML[VTD-XML] +

VTD-XML Available as of Camel 2.10 The VTD-XML component supports the
VTD-XML Library http://vtd-xml.sourceforge.net/ for very fast and
efficient XPath processing. The camel-vtdxml library is provided by the
Camel Extra http://code.google.com/p/camel-extr

[[w]]
[[index-W]]W
++++++++++++

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Walk+through+an+Example[Walk
through an Example] +

Walk through an Example Code This mini-guide takes you through the
source code of a simple example
https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/camel/trunk/examples/camel-example-jms-file/src/main/java/org/apache/camel/example/jmstofile/CamelJmsToFileExample.java.
Ca

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Walk+through+another+example[Walk
through another example] +

Walk through another example Introduction Continuing the walk from our
first example, we take a closer look at the routing and explain a few
pointers - so you won't walk into a bear trap, but can enjoy an
after-hours walk to the local pub for a large beer

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Weather[Weather] +

Weather Component Available as of Camel 2.12 The weather: component is
used for polling weather information from Open Weather Map
http://openweathermap.org - a site that provides free global weather and
forecast information. The information is returned as

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Web+Console[Web
Console] +

Web Console Deprecated The web console module from Apache Camel
distribution is deprecated and will be removed from Camel 2.16 onwards.
Instead we encourage users to look at some of the alternative console
projects, which some are listed in the bottom of

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Websocket[Websocket] +

Websocket Component Available as of Camel 2.10 The websocket component
provides websocket endpoints for communicating with clients using
websocket. The component uses Eclipse Jetty Server which implements the
IETF http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6455 specif

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Welcome+Franz+Forsthofer+as+the+newest+Camel+committer[Welcome
Franz Forsthofer as the newest Camel committer] +

A few weeks back the Camel PMC voted another one of the active and
talented contributors to become a committer. Franz Forsthofer was
actively involved with Apache Camel for a while. In the past months his
activity reached a new level. Franz contributed

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/What+are+the+dependencies[What
are the dependencies] +

What are the dependencies? Camel 2.6 or older can run on JDK 1.5 or
better. Camel 2.7 onwards requires JDK 1.6 or JDK 1.7. Camel 2.14
onwards requires JDK 1.7 or better. Camel 2.18 onwards requires JDK 1.8.
What are the runtime jar dependencies? Apache Ca

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/What+is+a+router[What
is a router] +

What is a router? We often talk about that Camel is a mediation and
routing framework; so what exactly is a router and what does it do?
Basically a router just consumes Message exchanges from some Endpoint,
then sends them on to some other Endpoint using

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/What+is+Camel[What is
Camel] +

Apache Camel ™ is a versatile open-source integration framework based on
known Enterprise Integration Patterns. Camel empowers you to define
routing and mediation rules in a variety of domain-specific languages,
including a Java-based Fluent API, Spring o

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/What+is+the+license[What
is the license] +

What is the license? This software is open source using the Apache 2.0
licence http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html (a liberal BSD
style license which is very commercial friendly)

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/What+jars+do+I+need[What
jars do I need] +

What jars do I need? Camel is designed to be small lightweight and
extremely modular so that you only pay for what you use. The core of
camel, camel-core.jar is small and has minimal dependencies. On Java 6
camel-core.jar only depends on commons-managemen

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/What+languages+are+supported[What
languages are supported] +

What languages are supported Camel supports multiple Languages in the
DSL or Xml Configuration for maximum extensibility. The following is the
list of currently supported languages Languages Supported

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/What+platforms+are+supported[What
platforms are supported] +

What platforms are supported? Any platform supporting JDK 6. We
regularly test Camel on Linux, Windows and OS X. If you have a platform
that is not listed contact one of the companies that provide commercial
support.

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Why+can+I+not+use+when+or+otherwise+in+a+Java+Camel+route[Why
can I not use when or otherwise in a Java Camel route] +

Why can I not use when/otherwise in a Java Camel route? When using the
Content Based Router in the Java DSL you may have a situation where the
compiler will not accept the following when() or otherwise() statement.
Use .endChoice() to return "back" to the

Page: link:why-cant-i-use-sign-in-my-password.html[Why can't I use +
sign in my password] +

How do I configure password options on Camel endpoints without the value
being encoded

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Why+do+Camel+throw+so+many+NoClassDefFoundException+on+startup[Why
do Camel throw so many NoClassDefFoundException on startup] +

Why do Camel throw so many NoClassDefFoundException on startup Camel
uses a runtime strategy to discover features while it starts up. This is
used to register components, languages, type converters etc. If you are
using the uber .jar (the big camel.jar) w

Page: link:why-do-my-message-lose-its-headers-during-routing.html[Why do
my message lose its headers during routing?] +

Why do my message lose its headers during routing? See this FAQ entry

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Why+does+Camel+use+too+many+threads+with+ProducerTemplate[Why
does Camel use too many threads with ProducerTemplate] +

Why does Camel use too many threads with ProducerTemplate? A common
reason is creating a new ProducerTemplate inside a Processor or bean
method invocation. You are not meant to create a ProducerTemplate for
each message invocation; you are meant to create

Page: link:why-does-ftp-component-not-download-any-files.html[Why does
FTP component not download any files?] +

Why does FTP component not download any files? The FTP component has
many options. So make sure you have configured it properly. Also a
common issue is that you have to use either active or passive mode. So
you may have to set passiveMode=true on the endp

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Why+does+maven+not+download+dependencies[Why
does maven not download dependencies] +

Why does maven not download dependencies? Maven uses HTTP to download
its dependenices along with the dependencies of the maven project (such
as Camel). If you run maven and it fails to download your required
dependencies its likely to be caused by your l

Page:
link:why-does-my-file-consumer-not-pick-up-the-file-and-how-do-i-let-the-file-consumer-use-the-camel-error-handler.html[Why
does my file consumer not pick up the file, and how do I let the file
consumer use the Camel error handler?] +

Why does my file consumer not pick up the file, and how do I let the
file consumer use the Camel error handler? There could be several
reasons why the File consumer is not picking up files. For example it
may not run at all, or it cannot acquire a read lo

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Why+does+my+JMS+route+only+consume+one+message+at+once[Why
does my JMS route only consume one message at once] +

Why does my JMS route only consume one message at once? The default JMS
endpoint configuration defines concurrentConsumers to be 1 so only 1
message is processed concurrently at any point in time. To change this
to make things more concurrent, just config

Page:
link:why-does-useoriginalmessage-with-error-handler-not-work-as-expected.html[Why
does useOriginalMessage with error handler not work as expected?] +

Why does useOriginalMessage with error handler not work as expected? If
you use the useOriginalMessage option from the Camel Error Handler then
it matters if you use this with EIPs such as Recipient List Splitter
Multicast Then the option shareUnitOfWork

Page: link:why-is-my-message-body-empty.html[Why is my message body
empty?] +

Why is my message empty? In Camel the message body can be of any types.
Some types are safely readable multiple times, and therefore do not
'suffer' from becoming 'empty'. So when you message body suddenly is
empty, then that is often related to using a m

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Why+is+my+processor+not+showing+up+in+JConsole[Why
is my processor not showing up in JConsole] +

Why is my processor not showing up in JConsole Not every processor is
managed, and thus not all are visible in JConsole. A processor must
implement the org.apache.camel.Service to be managed. Most EIP
processors do this. For example, the minor ones such a

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Why+is+the+exception+null+when+I+use+onException[Why
is the exception null when I use onException] +

Why is the exception null when I use onException? If you use onException
to handle exceptions, such as shown below:
.onException(Exception.class).handled(true) .process(new Processor() \{
@Override public void process(Exchange exchange) throws Exception \{

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Why+the+name+Camel[Why
the name Camel] +

Why did you choose the name Camel it stands for Concise Application
Message Exchange Language (i.e. the Java DSL for routing) a Camel can
carry 4 times the load http://www.fao.org/sd/EGdirect/EGan0006.htm of
other beasts of burden a Camel can travel for g

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Why+use+multiple+CamelContext[Why
use multiple CamelContext] +

Why use multiple CamelContext In general, you don't tend to want
multiple camel contexts in your application, if you're running Camel as
a standalone Java instance. However, if you're deploying Camel routes as
OSGi bundles, or WARs in an application serve

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Wire+Tap[Wire
Tap] +

Wire Tap Wire Tap
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/WireTap.html (from the EIP
patterns) allows you to route messages to a separate location while they
are being forwarded to the ultimate destination.
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.co

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Writing+Components[Writing
Components] +

Writing Components Apache Camel is designed to make it very easy to drop
in new components whether they be routing components, transformers,
transports etc. The idea of a component is to be a factory and manager
of Endpoints. Here are the main steps to wr

[[x]]
[[index-X]]X
++++++++++++

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Xml+Configuration[Xml
Configuration] +

Xml Configuration We recommend developers use the Java Domain Specific
Language when writing routing rules as this provides maximum IDE
completion and functionality while being the most expressive. However if
you wish to put your routing rules in XML you

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Xml+Reference[Xml
Reference] +

Camel Xml Reference This page contains a link to the XML schema
documents for Xml Configuration with Camel releases. You can refer to
http://camel.apache.org/schema/ http://camel.apache.org/schema/ to see
the individual XSDs available. Released Schemas -

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/XML+Security+component[XML
Security component] +

XML Security component Available as of Camel 2.12.0 With this Apache
Camel component, you can generate and validate XML signatures as
described in the W3C standard XML Signature Syntax and Processing
http://www.w3.org/TR/xmldsig-core/ or as described in t

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/XmlBeans[XmlBeans] +

XmlBeans XmlBeans is a Data Format which uses the XmlBeans library
http://xmlbeans.apache.org/ to unmarshal an XML payload into Java
objects or to marshal Java objects into an XML payload.
from("activemq:My.Queue"). unmarshal().xmlBeans(). to("mqseries:An

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/XmlJson[XmlJson] +

XML JSON Data Format (camel-xmljson) Available as of Camel 2.10 Camel
already supports a number of data formats to perform XML and
JSON-related conversions, but all of them require a POJO either as an
input (for marshalling) or produce a POJO as output (f

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/XmlRpc[XmlRpc] +

XmlRpc Component Available as of Camel 2.11 This component provides a
dataformat for xml, which allows serialization and deserialization of
request messages and response message using Apache XmlRpc's binary
dataformat. You can also invoke the XMLRPC Servi

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/XMLSecurity+DataFormat[XMLSecurity
DataFormat] +

XMLSecurity Data Format The XMLSecurity Data Format facilitates
encryption and decryption of XML payloads at the Document, Element, and
Element Content levels (including simultaneous multi-node
encryption/decryption using XPath). To sign messages using th

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/XMLTokenizer[XMLTokenizer] +

XMLTokenizer The xml tokenizer language is a built-in language in
camel-core, which is a truly XML-aware tokenizer that can be used with
the Splitter as the conventional Tokenizer to efficiently and
effectively tokenize XML documents. XMLTokenizer is capa

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/XMPP[XMPP] +

XMPP Component The xmpp: component implements an XMPP (Jabber)
transport. Maven users will need to add the following dependency to
their pom.xml for this component: <dependency>
<groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId> <artifactId>camel-xmpp</artifactId>
<vers

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/XPath[XPath] +

XPath Camel supports XPath http://www.w3.org/TR/xpath to allow an
Expression or Predicate to be used in the DSL or Xml Configuration. For
example you could use XPath to create an Predicate in a Message Filter
or as an Expression for a Recipient List. If t

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/XQuery[XQuery] +

XQuery Camel supports XQuery http://www.w3.org/TR/xquery/ to allow an
Expression or Predicate to be used in the DSL or Xml Configuration. For
example you could use XQuery to create an Predicate in a Message Filter
or as an Expression for a Recipient List.

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/XQuery+Endpoint[XQuery
Endpoint] +

XQuery The xquery: component allows you to process a message using an
XQuery template. This can be ideal when using Templating to generate
respopnses for requests. Maven users will need to add the following
dependency to their pom.xml for this component:

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/XSLT[XSLT] +

XSLT The xslt: component allows you to process a message using an XSLT
http://www.w3.org/TR/xslt template. This can be ideal when using
Templating to generate respopnses for requests. URI format
xslt:templateName[?options] Where templateName is the classp

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/XStream[XStream] +

XStream XStream is a Data Format which uses the XStream library
http://xstream.codehaus.org/ to marshal and unmarshal Java objects to
and from XML. To use XStream in your camel routes you need to add the a
dependency on camel-xstream which implements this

[[y]]
[[index-Y]]Y
++++++++++++

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/YAML+Data+Format[YAML
Data Format] +

YAML YAML is a Data Format to marshal and unmarshal Java objects to and
from YAML http://www.yaml.org/. For YAML to object marshalling, Camel
provides integration with three popular YAML libraries: The SnakeYAML
http://www.snakeyaml.org/ library Every lib

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Yammer[Yammer] +

Yammer Available as of Camel 2.12 The Yammer component allows you to
interact with the Yammer https://www.yammer.com enterprise social
network. Consuming messages, users, and user relationships is supported
as well as creating new messages. Yammer uses OA

[[z]]
[[index-Z]]Z
++++++++++++

Page: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/ZeroMQ[ZeroMQ] +

Camel ZeroMQ Component Available as of Camel 2.11 The camel-zeromq
component is provided by the Camel Extra
http://code.google.com/p/camel-extra/ project which hosts *GPL related
components for Camel. The camel-zeromq component allows you to consumer
or p

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Zip+DataFormat[Zip
DataFormat] +

The Zip Data Format is a message compression and de-compression format.
Messages marshalled using Zip compression can be unmarshalled using Zip
decompression just prior to being consumed at the endpoint. The
compression capability is quite useful when you

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Zip+File+DataFormat[Zip
File DataFormat] +

Zip File The Zip File Data Format is a message compression and
de-compression format. Messages can be marshalled (compressed) to Zip
files containing a single entry, and Zip files containing a single entry
can be unmarshalled (decompressed) to the origi

Page:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CAMEL/Zookeeper[Zookeeper] +

ZooKeeper Available as of Camel 2.9 The ZooKeeper component allows
interaction with a ZooKeeper http://hadoop.apache.org/zookeeper/ cluster
and exposes the following features to Camel: Creation of nodes in any of
the ZooKeeper create modes. Get and Set th

[[section-1]]
[[index-%21@%23%24]]!@#$
++++++++++++++++++++++++
