[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[Splitter-Splitter]]
Splitter
^^^^^^^^

The
http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/Sequencer.html[Splitter]
from the link:enterprise-integration-patterns.html[EIP patterns] allows
you split a message into a number of pieces and process them
individually

image:http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/img/Sequencer.gif[image]

You need to specify a Splitter as `split()`. In earlier versions of
Camel, you need to use `splitter()`.

[[Splitter-Options]]
Options
^^^^^^^

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Name |Default Value |Description
|`strategyRef` |  |Refers to an
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/processor/aggregate/AggregationStrategy.html[AggregationStrategy]
to be used to assemble the replies from the sub-messages, into a single
outgoing message from the link:splitter.html[Splitter]. See the defaults
described below in _link:splitter.html[What the Splitter returns]_. From
*Camel 2.12* onwards you can also use a POJO as the
`AggregationStrategy`, see the link:aggregator2.html[Aggregate] page for
more details. If an exception is thrown from the aggregate method in the
AggregationStrategy, then by default, that exception is not handled by
the error handler. The error handler can be enabled to react if enabling
the shareUnitOfWork option.

|`strategyMethodName` |  |*Camel 2.12:* This option can be used to
explicit declare the method name to use, when using POJOs as the
`AggregationStrategy`. See the link:aggregator2.html[Aggregate] page for
more details.

|`strategyMethodAllowNull` |`false` |*Camel 2.12:* If this option is
`false` then the aggregate method is not used for the very first
splitted message. If this option is `true` then `null` values is used as
the `oldExchange` (for the very first message splitted), when using
POJOs as the `AggregationStrategy`. See the
link:aggregator2.html[Aggregate] page for more details.

|`parallelProcessing` |`false` |If enabled then processing the
sub-messages occurs concurrently. Note the caller thread will still wait
until all sub-messages has been fully processed, before it continues. | 

|`parallelAggregate` |`false` |*Camel 2.14:* If enabled then the
`aggregate` method on `AggregationStrategy` can be called concurrently.
Notice that this would require the implementation of
`AggregationStrategy` to be implemented as thread-safe. By default this
is `false` meaning that Camel synchronizes the call to the `aggregate`
method. Though in some use-cases this can be used to achieve higher
performance when the `AggregationStrategy` is implemented as
thread-safe.

|`executorServiceRef` |  |Refers to a custom
link:threading-model.html[Thread Pool] to be used for parallel
processing. Notice if you set this option, then parallel processing is
automatically implied, and you do not have to enable that option as
well.

|`stopOnException` |`false` |*Camel 2.2:* Whether or not to stop
continue processing immediately when an exception occurred. If disable,
then Camel continue splitting and process the sub-messages regardless if
one of them failed. You can deal with exceptions in the
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/processor/aggregate/AggregationStrategy.html[AggregationStrategy]
class where you have full control how to handle that.

|`streaming` |`false` |If enabled then Camel will split in a streaming
fashion, which means it will split the input message in chunks. This
reduces the memory overhead. For example if you split big messages its
recommended to enable streaming. If streaming is enabled then the
sub-message replies will be aggregated out-of-order, eg in the order
they come back. If disabled, Camel will process sub-message replies in
the same order as they where splitted.

|`timeout` |  |*Camel 2.5:* Sets a total timeout specified in millis. If
the link:recipient-list.html[Recipient List] hasn't been able to split
and process all replies within the given timeframe, then the timeout
triggers and the link:splitter.html[Splitter] breaks out and continues.
Notice if you provide a
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/processor/aggregate/TimeoutAwareAggregationStrategy.html[TimeoutAwareAggregationStrategy]
then the `timeout` method is invoked before breaking out. If the timeout
is reached with running tasks still remaining, certain tasks for which
it is difficult for Camel to shut down in a graceful manner may continue
to run. So use this option with a bit of care. We may be able to improve
this functionality in future Camel releases.

|`onPrepareRef` |  |*Camel 2.8:* Refers to a custom
link:processor.html[Processor] to prepare the sub-message of the
link:exchange.html[Exchange], before its processed. This allows you to
do any custom logic, such as deep-cloning the message payload if that's
needed etc.

|`shareUnitOfWork` |`false` |*Camel 2.8:* Whether the unit of work
should be shared. See further below for more details.
|=======================================================================

[[Splitter-Exchangeproperties]]
Exchange properties
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following properties are set on each Exchange that are split:

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|property |type |description
|`CamelSplitIndex` |int |A split counter that increases for each
Exchange being split. The counter starts from 0.

|`CamelSplitSize` |int |The total number of Exchanges that was splitted.
This header is not applied for stream based splitting. From *Camel 2.9*
onwards this header is also set in stream based splitting, but only on
the completed Exchange.

|`CamelSplitComplete` |boolean |*Camel 2.4:* Whether or not this
Exchange is the last.
|=======================================================================

[[Splitter-Examples]]
Examples
^^^^^^^^

The following example shows how to take a request from the *direct:a*
endpoint the split it into pieces using an
link:expression.html[Expression], then forward each piece to *direct:b*

*Using the link:fluent-builders.html[Fluent
Builders]*\{snippet:id=splitter|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/builder/RouteBuilderTest.java}The
splitter can use any link:expression.html[Expression] language so you
could use any of the link:languages-supported.html[Languages Supported]
such as link:xpath.html[XPath], link:xquery.html[XQuery],
link:sql.html[SQL] or one of the link:scripting-languages.html[Scripting
Languages] to perform the split. e.g.

from("activemq:my.queue").split(xpath("//foo/bar")).convertBodyTo(String.class).to("file://some/directory")

*Using the link:spring-xml-extensions.html[Spring XML
Extensions]*\{snippet:id=example|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-spring/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/spring/xml/buildSplitter.xml}For
further examples of this pattern in use you could look at one of the
http://svn.apache.org/viewvc/camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/SplitterTest.java?view=markup[junit
test case]

[[Splitter-SplittingaCollection,IteratororArray]]
Splitting a Collection, Iterator or Array
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A common use case is to split a Collection, Iterator or Array from the
message. In the sample below we simply use
an link:expression.html[Expression] to identify the value to split.

javafrom("direct:splitUsingBody").split(body()).to("mock:result");
from("direct:splitUsingHeader").split(header("foo")).to("mock:result"); 

In Spring XML you can use the link:simple.html[Simple] language to
identify the value to split.

xml<split> <simple>$\{body}</simple> <to uri="mock:result"/> </split>
<split> <simple>$\{header.foo}</simple> <to uri="mock:result"/> </split>
 

[[Splitter-UsingTokenizerfrom*]]
Using Tokenizer from link:spring-xml-extensions.html[Spring XML
Extensions]*
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can use the tokenizer expression in the Spring DSL to split bodies
or headers using a token. This is a common use-case, so we provided a
special *tokenizer* tag for this. +
In the sample below we split the body using a @ as separator. You can of
course use comma or space or even a regex pattern, also set
regex=true.\{snippet:id=e1|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-spring/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/spring/processor/splitterTokenizerTest.xml}

[[Splitter-WhattheSplitterreturns]]
What the Splitter returns
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Camel 2.2 or older:* +
The link:splitter.html[Splitter] will by default return the *last*
splitted message.

*Camel 2.3 and newer* +
The link:splitter.html[Splitter] will by default return the original
input message.

*For all versions* +
You can override this by suppling your own strategy as an
`AggregationStrategy`. There is a sample on this page (Split aggregate
request/reply sample). Notice its the same strategy as the
link:aggregator.html[Aggregator] supports. This
link:splitter.html[Splitter] can be viewed as having a build in light
weight link:aggregator.html[Aggregator].

[[Splitter-Parallelexecutionofdistinct'parts']]
Parallel execution of distinct 'parts'
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you want to execute all parts in parallel you can use special
notation of `split()` with two arguments, where the second one is a
*boolean* flag if processing should be parallel. e.g.

XPathBuilder xPathBuilder = new XPathBuilder("//foo/bar");
from("activemq:my.queue").split(xPathBuilder,
true).to("activemq:my.parts");

The boolean option has been refactored into a builder method
`parallelProcessing` so its easier to understand what the route does
when we use a method instead of true|false.

XPathBuilder xPathBuilder = new XPathBuilder("//foo/bar");
from("activemq:my.queue").split(xPathBuilder).parallelProcessing().to("activemq:my.parts");

[[Splitter-Streambased]]
Stream based
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Splitting big XML payloads

The XPath engine in Java and link:xquery.html[saxon] will load the
entire XML content into memory. And thus they are not well suited for
very big XML payloads. +
Instead you can use a custom link:expression.html[Expression] which will
iterate the XML payload in a streamed fashion. From Camel 2.9 onwards
you can use the Tokenizer language +
which supports this when you supply the start and end tokens. From Camel
2.14, you can use the XMLTokenizer language which is specifically
provided for tokenizing XML documents.

You can split streams by enabling the streaming mode using the
`streaming` builder method.

from("direct:streaming").split(body().tokenize(",")).streaming().to("activemq:my.parts");

You can also supply your custom splitter to use with streaming like
this:

import static org.apache.camel.builder.ExpressionBuilder.beanExpression;
from("direct:streaming") .split(beanExpression(new
MyCustomIteratorFactory(), "iterator"))
.streaming().to("activemq:my.parts")

[[Splitter-StreamingbigXMLpayloadsusingTokenizerlanguage]]
Streaming big XML payloads using Tokenizer language
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

There are two tokenizers that can be used to tokenize an XML payload.
The first tokenizer uses the same principle as in the text tokenizer to
scan the XML payload and extract a sequence of tokens.

*Available as of Camel 2.9* +
If you have a big XML payload, from a file source, and want to split it
in streaming mode, then you can use the Tokenizer language with
start/end tokens to do this with low memory footprint.

StAX component

The Camel link:stax.html[StAX] component can also be used to split big
XML files in a streaming mode. See more details at link:stax.html[StAX].

For example you may have a XML payload structured as follows

xml<orders> <order> <!-- order stuff here --> </order> <order> <!--
order stuff here --> </order> ... <order> <!-- order stuff here -->
</order> </orders>

Now to split this big file using link:xpath.html[XPath] would cause the
entire content to be loaded into memory. So instead we can use the
Tokenizer language to do this as follows:

from("file:inbox") .split().tokenizeXML("order").streaming()
.to("activemq:queue:order");

In XML DSL the route would be as follows:

xml<route> <from uri="file:inbox"/> <split streaming="true"> <tokenize
token="order" xml="true"/> <to uri="activemq:queue:order"/> </split>
</route>

Notice the `tokenizeXML` method which will split the file using the tag
name of the child node (more precisely speaking, the local name of the
element without its namespace prefix if any), which mean it will grab
the content between the `<order>` and `</order>` tags (incl. the
tokens). So for example a splitted message would be as follows:

xml <order> <!-- order stuff here --> </order>

If you want to inherit namespaces from a root/parent tag, then you can
do this as well by providing the name of the root/parent tag:

xml<route> <from uri="file:inbox"/> <split streaming="true"> <tokenize
token="order" inheritNamespaceTagName="orders" xml="true"/> <to
uri="activemq:queue:order"/> </split> </route>

And in Java DSL its as follows:

from("file:inbox") .split().tokenizeXML("order", "orders").streaming()
.to("activemq:queue:order");

Available as of Camel 2.13.1, you can set the above
inheritNamsepaceTagName property to "*" to include the preceding context
in each token (i.e., generating each token enclosed in its ancestor
elements). It is noted that each token must share the same ancestor
elements in this case.

The above tokenizer works well on simple structures but has some
inherent limitations in handling more complex XML structures.

*Available as of Camel 2.14*

The second tokenizer uses a StAX parser to overcome these limitations.
This tokenizer recognizes XML namespaces and also handles simple and
complex XML structures more naturally and efficiently. 

To split using this tokenizer at \{urn:shop}order, we can write

Namespaces ns = new Namespaces("ns1", "urn:shop"); ...
from("file:inbox") .split().xtokenize("//ns1:order", 'i',
ns).streaming() .to("activemq:queue:order)

Two arguments control the behavior of the tokenizer. The first argument
specifies the element using a path notation. This path notation uses a
subset of xpath with wildcard support. The second argument represents
the extraction mode. The available extraction modes are:

[cols=",",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|mode |description
|i |injecting the contextual namespace bindings into the extracted token
(default)

|w |wrapping the extracted token in its ancestor context

|u |unwrapping the extracted token to its child content

|t |extracting the text content of the specified element
|=======================================================================

 Having an input XML

xml<m:orders xmlns:m="urn:shop" xmlns:cat="urn:shop:catalog">
<m:order><id>123</id><date>2014-02-25</date>...</m:order> ...

Each mode will result in the following tokens, 

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",]
|=======================================================================
|i a|
....
<m:order xmlns:m="urn:shop" xmlns:cat="urn:shop:catalog"><id>123</id><date>2014-02-25</date>...</m:order>
....

|w a|
....
<m:orders xmlns:m="urn:shop" xmlns:cat="urn:shop:catalog">
  <m:order><id>123</id><date>2014-02-25</date>...</m:order></m:orders>
....

|u a|
....
<id>123</id><date>2014-02-25</date>...
....

|t a|
....
1232014-02-25...
....

|=======================================================================

 In XML DSL, the equivalent route would be written as follows:

xml<camelContext xmlns:ns1="urn:shop"> <route> <from uri="file:inbox"/>
<split streaming="true"> <xtokenize>//ns1:order</xtokenize> <to
uri="activemq:queue:order"/> </split> </route> </camelContext>

 or setting the extraction mode explicitly as

xml ... <xtokenize mode="i">//ns1:order</xtokenize> ...

Note that this StAX based tokenizer's uses StAX Location API and
requires a StAX Reader implementation (e.g., woodstox) that correctly
returns the offset position pointing to the beginning of each event
triggering segment (e.g., the offset position of '<' at each start and
end element event). If you use a StAX Reader which does not implement
that API correctly it results in invalid xml snippets after the split.
For example the snippet could be wrong terminated:

....
<Start>...<</Start> .... <Start>...</</Start>
....

[[Splitter-SplittingfilesbygroupingNlinestogether]]
Splitting files by grouping N lines together
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*Available as of Camel 2.10*

The link:tokenizer.html[Tokenizer] language has a new option `group`
that allows you to group N parts together, for example to split big
files into chunks of 1000 lines.

from("file:inbox") .split().tokenize("\n", 1000).streaming()
.to("activemq:queue:order");

And in XML DSL

xml<route> <from uri="file:inbox"/> <split streaming="true"> <tokenize
token="\n" group="1000"/> <to uri="activemq:queue:order"/> </split>
</route>

The `group` option is a number that must be a positive number that
dictates how many groups to combine together. Each part will be combined
using the token. +
So in the example above the message being sent to the activemq order
queue, will contain 1000 lines, and each line separated by the token
(which is a new line token). +
The output when using the `group` option is always a `java.lang.String`
type.

[[Splitter-Specifyingacustomaggregationstrategy]]
Specifying a custom aggregation strategy
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

This is specified similar to the link:aggregator.html[Aggregator].

[[Splitter-SpecifyingacustomThreadPoolExecutor]]
Specifying a custom ThreadPoolExecutor
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

You can customize the underlying ThreadPoolExecutor used in the parallel
splitter. In the Java DSL try something like this:

JavaXPathBuilder xPathBuilder = new XPathBuilder("//foo/bar");
ExecutorService pool = ... from("activemq:my.queue")
.split(xPathBuilder).executorService(pool) .to("activemq:my.parts");

[[Splitter-UsingaPojotodothesplitting]]
Using a Pojo to do the splitting
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

As the link:splitter.html[Splitter] can use any
link:expression.html[Expression] to do the actual splitting we leverage
this fact and use a *method* expression to invoke a link:bean.html[Bean]
to get the splitted parts. +
The link:bean.html[Bean] should return a value that is iterable such as:
`java.util.Collection, java.util.Iterator` or an array. +
So the returned value, will then be used by Camel at runtime, to split
the message.

Streaming mode and using pojo

When you have enabled the streaming mode, then you should return a
`Iterator` to ensure streamish fashion. For example if the message is a
big file, then by using an iterator, that returns a piece of the file in
chunks, in the `next` method of the `Iterator` ensures low memory
footprint. This avoids the need for reading the entire content into
memory. For an example see the source code for the
https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/camel/trunk/camel-core/src/main/java/org/apache/camel/support/TokenPairExpressionIterator.java[TokenizePair]
implementation.

In the route we define the link:expression.html[Expression] as a method
call to invoke our link:bean.html[Bean] that we have registered with the
id mySplitterBean in the
link:registry.html[Registry].\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/SplitterPojoTest.java}And
the logic for our link:bean.html[Bean] is as simple as. Notice we use
Camel link:bean-binding.html[Bean Binding] to pass in the message body
as a String
object.\{snippet:id=e2|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/SplitterPojoTest.java}

[[Splitter-Splitaggregaterequest/replysample]]
Split aggregate request/reply sample
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

This sample shows how you can split an link:exchange.html[Exchange],
process each splitted message, aggregate and return a combined response
to the original caller using request/reply.

The route below illustrates this and how the split supports a
*aggregationStrategy* to hold the in progress processed
messages:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/SplitAggregateInOutTest.java}And
the OrderService bean is as
follows:\{snippet:id=e2|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/SplitAggregateInOutTest.java}And
our custom *aggregationStrategy* that is responsible for holding the in
progress aggregated message that after the splitter is ended will be
sent to the *buildCombinedResponse* method for final processing before
the combined response can be returned to the waiting
caller.\{snippet:id=e3|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/SplitAggregateInOutTest.java}So
lets run the sample and see how it works. +
We send an link:exchange.html[Exchange] to the *direct:start* endpoint
containing a IN body with the String value: `A@B@C`. The flow is:

HandleOrder: A HandleOrder: B Aggregate old orders: (id=1,item=A)
Aggregate new order: (id=2,item=B) HandleOrder: C Aggregate old orders:
(id=1,item=A);(id=2,item=B) Aggregate new order: (id=3,item=C)
BuildCombinedResponse: (id=1,item=A);(id=2,item=B);(id=3,item=C)
Response to caller: Response[(id=1,item=A);(id=2,item=B);(id=3,item=C)]

[[Splitter-Stopprocessingincaseofexception]]
Stop processing in case of exception
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.1*

The link:splitter.html[Splitter] will by default continue to process the
entire link:exchange.html[Exchange] even in case of one of the splitted
message will thrown an exception during routing. +
For example if you have an link:exchange.html[Exchange] with 1000 rows
that you split and route each sub message. During processing of these
sub messages an exception is thrown at the 17th. What Camel does by
default is to process the remainder 983 messages. You have the chance to
remedy or handle this in the `AggregationStrategy`.

But sometimes you just want Camel to stop and let the exception be
propagated back, and let the Camel error handler handle it. You can do
this in Camel 2.1 by specifying that it should stop in case of an
exception occurred. This is done by the `stopOnException` option as
shown below:

from("direct:start") .split(body().tokenize(",")).stopOnException()
.process(new MyProcessor()) .to("mock:split");

And using XML DSL you specify it as follows:

xml <route> <from uri="direct:start"/> <split stopOnException="true">
<tokenize token=","/> <process ref="myProcessor"/> <to
uri="mock:split"/> </split> </route>

[[Splitter-UsingonPreparetoexecutecustomlogicwhenpreparingmessages]]
Using onPrepare to execute custom logic when preparing messages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.8*

See details at link:multicast.html[Multicast]

[[Splitter-Sharingunitofwork]]
Sharing unit of work
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.8*

The link:splitter.html[Splitter] will by default not share unit of work
between the parent exchange and each splitted exchange. This means each
sub exchange has its own individual unit of work.

For example you may have an use case, where you want to split a big
message. And you want to regard that process as an atomic isolated
operation that either is a success or failure. In case of a failure you
want that big message to be moved into a
link:dead-letter-channel.html[dead letter queue]. To support this use
case, you would have to share the unit of work on the
link:splitter.html[Splitter].

Here is an example in Java
DSL\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/camel-core/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/SplitSubUnitOfWorkTest.java}Now
in this example what would happen is that in case there is a problem
processing each sub message, the error handler will kick in (yes error
handling still applies for the sub messages). *But* what doesn't happen
is that if a sub message fails all redelivery attempts (its exhausted),
then its *not* moved into that dead letter queue. The reason is that we
have shared the unit of work, so the sub message will report the error
on the shared unit of work. When the link:splitter.html[Splitter] is
done, it checks the state of the shared unit of work and checks if any
errors occurred. And if an error occurred it will set the exception on
the link:exchange.html[Exchange] and mark it for rollback. The error
handler will yet again kick in, as the link:exchange.html[Exchange] has
been marked as rollback and it had an exception as well. No redelivery
attempts is performed (as it was marked for rollback) and the
link:exchange.html[Exchange] will be moved into the
link:dead-letter-channel.html[dead letter queue].

Using this from XML DSL is just as easy as you just have to set the
shareUnitOfWork attribute to
true:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-spring/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/spring/processor/SpringSplitSubUnitOfWorkTest.xml}

Implementation of shared unit of work

So in reality the unit of work is not shared as a single object
instance. Instead `SubUnitOfWork` is attached to their parent, and
issues callback to the parent about their status (commit or rollback).
This may be refactored in Camel 3.0 where larger API changes can be
done.

link:using-this-pattern.html[Using This Pattern]
