[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[SpringJavaConfigExample-SpringJavaConfigExample]]
Spring Java Config Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Simple Jar runner

Want to run your jar file and supply a list of packages / configuration
classes and just see it run with Camel? Try `Main` from
`org.apache.camel.spring` which even supports command-line flags.

The spring java config example is a simple refactor of the
link:spring-example.html[spring example] since Camel 2.0 to show how to
use the http://www.springsource.org/javaconfig[Spring JavaConfig]
approach to working with Camel. In this example we just write
RouteBuilder implementations, then Camel will find it through your
configuration.

Â 

*NOTE* From Camel 2.2.0, camel-example-spring-javaconfig can only work
with Spring 3.x.

To run the example we use the link:camel-maven-plugin.html[Camel Maven
Plugin]. For example from the source or binary distribution the
following should work

cd examples/camel-example-spring-javaconfig mvn camel:run

You need to add camel-spring-javaconfig dependency into pom.xml and also
set the configure class or base package in the camel plugin
configuration.

<dependency> <groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId>
<artifactId>camel-spring</artifactId> </dependency> <dependency>
<groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId>
<artifactId>camel-spring-javaconfig</artifactId> </dependency>

Here is the configuration for camel plugin.

\{snippet:id=example|lang=xml|url=camel/trunk/examples/camel-example-spring-javaconfig/pom.xml}

What this does is boot up the Spring ApplicationContext defined in the
file MyRouteConfig class on the classpath. This is a regular Java file
which has the Spring JavaConfig annotation to configure a
link:camelcontext.html[CamelContext].

\{snippet:id=RouteConfig|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/examples/camel-example-spring-javaconfig/src/main/java/org/apache/camel/example/spring/javaconfig/MyRouteConfig.java}

In the method of setupCamelContext(CamelContext camelContext), we setup
the JMS component's connection factory and register the component into
the camelcontext. You can override this method if you want to setup the
another connection factory or start up a JMS broker here.

You can write the route rule with Java link:dsl.html[DSL] in the route()
method.

This approach, of using Java code to write the routes in the
link:dsl.html[DSL] and Spring will help your configure the Camel context
as the link:spring-java-config-example.html[Spring Java Config Example]
shows.
