[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[SQLComponent-SQLComponent]]
SQL Component
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The *sql:* component allows you to work with databases using JDBC
queries. The difference between this component and link:jdbc.html[JDBC]
component is that in case of SQL the query is a property of the endpoint
and it uses message payload as parameters passed to the query.

This component uses `spring-jdbc` behind the scenes for the actual SQL
handling.

Maven users will need to add the following dependency to their `pom.xml`
for this component:

xml<dependency> <groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId>
<artifactId>camel-sql</artifactId> <version>x.x.x</version> <!-- use the
same version as your Camel core version --> </dependency>

The SQL component also supports:

* a JDBC based repository for the
link:idempotent-consumer.html[Idempotent Consumer] EIP pattern. See
further below.
* a JDBC based repository for the link:aggregator2.html[Aggregator] EIP
pattern. See further below.

[[SQLComponent-URIformat]]
URI format
^^^^^^^^^^

From Camel 2.11 onwards this component can create both consumer (e.g.
`from()`) and producer endpoints (e.g. `to()`).

In previous versions, it could only act as a producer.

This component can be used as a
http://camel.apache.org/transactional-client.html[Transactional Client].

The SQL component uses the following endpoint URI notation:

sql:select * from table where id=# order by name[?options]

From Camel 2.11 onwards you can use named parameters by using
:`#name_of_the_parameter` style as shown:

sql:select * from table where id=:#myId order by name[?options]

When using named parameters, Camel will lookup the names from, in the
given precedence: +
1. from message body if its a `java.util.Map` +
2. from message headers

If a named parameter cannot be resolved, then an exception is thrown.

From *Camel 2.14* onward you can use Simple expressions as parameters as
shown:

sql:select * from table where id=:#$\{property.myId} order by
name[?options]

Notice that the standard `?` symbol that denotes the parameters to an
SQL query is substituted with the `#` symbol, because the `?` symbol is
used to specify options for the endpoint. The `?` symbol replacement can
be configured on endpoint basis.

From *Camel 2.17* onwards you can externalize your SQL queries to files
in the classpath or file system as shown:

sql:classpath:sql/myquery.sql[?options]

And the myquery.sql file is in the classpath and is just a plain text

-- this is a comment select * from table where id = :#$\{property.myId}
order by name

In the file you can use multilines and format the SQL as you wish. And
also use comments such as the – dash line.

You can append query options to the URI in the following format,
`?option=value&option=value&...`

[[SQLComponent-Options]]
Options
^^^^^^^

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="25%,25%,25%,25%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Type |Default |Description
|`batch` |`boolean` |`false` |*Camel 2.7.5, 2.8.4 and 2.9:* Execute SQL
batch update statements. See notes below on how the treatment of the
inbound message body changes if this is set to `true`.

|`dataSourceRef` |`String` |`null` |*Deprecated and will be removed in
Camel 3.0:* Reference to a `DataSource` to look up in the registry. Use
`dataSource=#theName` instead.

|`dataSource` |`String` |`null` |*Camel 2.11:* Reference to a
`DataSource` to look up in the registry.

|`placeholder` |`String` |`#` |*Camel 2.4:* Specifies a character that
will be replaced to `?` in SQL query. Notice, that it is simple
`String.replaceAll()` operation and no SQL parsing is involved (quoted
strings will also change). This replacement is *only* happening if the
endpoint is created using the `SqlComponent`. If you manually create the
endpoint, then use the expected `?` sign instead.

|`usePlaceholder` |`boolean` |`true` |*Camel 2.17:* Sets whether to use
placeholder and replace all placeholder characters with ? sign in the
SQL queries.

|`template.<xxx>` |  |`null` |Sets additional options on the Spring
`JdbcTemplate` that is used behind the scenes to execute the queries.
For instance, `template.maxRows=10`. For detailed documentation, see the
http://static.springframework.org/spring/docs/2.5.x/api/org/springframework/jdbc/core/JdbcTemplate.html[JdbcTemplate
javadoc] documentation.

|`allowNamedParameters` |`boolean` |`true` |*Camel 2.11:* Whether to
allow using named parameters in the queries.

|`processingStrategy` |  |  |*Camel 2.11:* *SQL consumer only:* Allows
to plugin to use a custom
`org.apache.camel.component.sql.SqlProcessingStrategy` to execute
queries when the consumer has processed the rows/batch.

|`prepareStatementStrategy` |  |  |*Camel 2.11:* Allows to plugin to use
a custom `org.apache.camel.component.sql.SqlPrepareStatementStrategy` to
control preparation of the query and prepared statement.

|`consumer.delay` |`long` |`500` |*Camel 2.11:* *SQL consumer only:*
Delay in milliseconds between each poll.

|`consumer.initialDelay` |`long` |`1000` |*Camel 2.11:* *SQL consumer
only:* Milliseconds before polling starts.

|`consumer.useFixedDelay` |`boolean` |`false` |*Camel 2.11:* *SQL
consumer only:* Set to `true` to use fixed delay between polls,
otherwise fixed rate is used. See
http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/api/java/util/concurrent/ScheduledExecutorService.html[ScheduledExecutorService]
in JDK for details.

|`maxMessagesPerPoll` |`int` |`0` |*Camel 2.11:* *SQL consumer only:* An
integer value to define the maximum number of messages to gather per
poll. By default, no maximum is set.

|`useIterator` |`boolean` |`true` |*Camel 2.11:* *SQL consumer only:* If
`true` each row returned when polling will be processed individually. If
`false` the entire `java.util.List` of data is set as the IN body.
Notice in Camel 2.15.x or older you need to prefix this option with
consumer., eg consumer.useIterator=true.

|`routeEmptyResultSet` |`boolean` |`false` |*Camel 2.11:* *SQL consumer
only:* Whether to route a single empty link:exchange.html[Exchange] if
there was no data to poll. Notice in Camel 2.15.x or older you need to
prefix this option with consumer., eg consumer.useIterator=true.

|`onConsume` |`String` |`null` |*Camel 2.11:* *SQL consumer only:* After
processing each row then this query can be executed, if the
link:exchange.html[Exchange] was processed successfully, for example to
mark the row as processed. The query can have parameter. Notice in Camel
2.15.x or older you need to prefix this option with consumer., eg
consumer.useIterator=true.

|`onConsumeFailed` |`String` |`null` |*Camel 2.11:* *SQL consumer only:*
After processing each row then this query can be executed, if the
link:exchange.html[Exchange] failed, for example to mark the row as
failed. The query can have parameter. Notice in Camel 2.15.x or older
you need to prefix this option with consumer., eg
consumer.useIterator=true.

|`onConsumeBatchComplete` |`String` |`null` |*Camel 2.11:* *SQL consumer
only:* After processing the entire batch, this query can be executed to
bulk update rows etc. The query cannot have parameters. Notice in Camel
2.15.x or older you need to prefix this option with consumer., eg
consumer.useIterator=true.

|`expectedUpdateCount` |`int` |`-1` |*Camel 2.11:* *SQL consumer only:*
If using `consumer.onConsume` then this option can be used to set an
expected number of rows being updated. Typically you may set this to `1`
to expect one row to be updated. Notice in Camel 2.15.x or older you
need to prefix this option with consumer., eg consumer.useIterator=true.

|`breakBatchOnConsumeFail` |`boolean` |`false` |*Camel 2.11:* *SQL
consumer only:* If using `consumer.onConsume` and it fails, then this
option controls whether to break out of the batch or continue processing
the next row from the batch. Notice in Camel 2.15.x or older you need to
prefix this option with consumer., eg consumer.useIterator=true.

|`alwaysPopulateStatement` |`boolean` |`false` |*Camel 2.11:* *SQL
producer only:* If enabled then the `populateStatement` method from
`org.apache.camel.component.sql.SqlPrepareStatementStrategy` is always
invoked, also if there is no expected parameters to be prepared. When
this is `false` then the `populateStatement` is only invoked if there is
1 or more expected parameters to be set; for example this avoids reading
the message body/headers for SQL queries with no parameters.

|`separator` |`char` |`,` |*Camel 2.11.1:* The separator to use when
parameter values is taken from message body (if the body is a String
type), to be inserted at # placeholders. Notice if you use named
parameters, then a `Map` type is used instead.

|`outputType` |`String` |`SelectList` a|
*Camel 2.12.0:* outputType='SelectList', for consumer or producer, will
output a List of Map. `SelectOne` will output single Java object in the
following way: +
a) If the query has only single column, then that JDBC Column object is
returned. (such as `SELECT COUNT( * ) FROM PROJECT` will return a Long
object. +
b) If the query has more than one column, then it will return a Map of
that result. +
c) If the `outputClass` is set, then it will convert the query result
into an Java bean object by calling all the setters that match the
column names. It will assume your class has a default constructor to
create instance with. +
d) If the query resulted in more than one rows, it throws an non-unique
result exception.

From *Camel 2.14.1* onwards the SelectList also supports mapping each
row to a Java object as the SelectOne does (only step c).

From *Camel 2.18* onwards there is a new StreamList outputType that
streams the result of the query using an Iterator. It can be used with
the link:splitter.html[Splitter] EIP in streaming mode to process the
ResultSet in streaming fashion. This StreamList do not support batch
mode, but you can use outputClass to map each row to a class.

|`outputClass` |`String` |`null` |*Camel 2.12.0:* Specify the full
package and class name to use as conversion when `outputType=SelectOne`.

|`outputHeader` |`String` |`null` |*Camel 2.15:* To store the result as
a header instead of the message body. This allows to preserve the
existing message body as-is.

|`parametersCount` |`int` |`0` |*Camel 2.11.2/2.12.0* If set greater
than zero, then Camel will use this count value of parameters to replace
instead of querying via JDBC metadata API. This is useful if the JDBC
vendor could not return correct parameters count, then user may override
instead.

|`noop` |`boolean` |`false` |*Camel 2.12.0* If set, will ignore the
results of the SQL query and use the existing IN message as the OUT
message for the continuation of processing

|`useMessageBodyForSql` |`boolean` |`false` |*Camel 2.16:* Whether to
use the message body as the SQL and then headers for parameters. If this
option is enabled then the SQL in the uri is not used. The SQL
parameters must then be provided in a header with the key
`CamelSqlParameters`. This option is only for the producer.

|`transacted` |`boolean` |`false` |*Camel 2.16.2:* **SQL consumer
only:**Enables or disables transaction. If enabled then if processing an
exchange failed then the consumer break out processing any further
exchanges to cause a rollback eager
|=======================================================================

[[SQLComponent-Treatmentofthemessagebody]]
Treatment of the message body
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The SQL component tries to convert the message body to an object of
`java.util.Iterator` type and then uses this iterator to fill the query
parameters (where each query parameter is represented by a `#` symbol
(or configured placeholder) in the endpoint URI). If the message body is
not an array or collection, the conversion results in an iterator that
iterates over only one object, which is the body itself.

For example, if the message body is an instance of `java.util.List`, the
first item in the list is substituted into the first occurrence of `#`
in the SQL query, the second item in the list is substituted into the
second occurrence of `#`, and so on.

If `batch` is set to `true`, then the interpretation of the inbound
message body changes slightly – instead of an iterator of parameters,
the component expects an iterator that contains the parameter iterators;
the size of the outer iterator determines the batch size.

From Camel 2.16 onwards you can use the option useMessageBodyForSql that
allows to use the message body as the SQL statement, and then the SQL
parameters must be provided in a header with the
key SqlConstants.SQL_PARAMETERS. This allows the SQL component to work
more dynamic as the SQL query is from the message body.

[[SQLComponent-Resultofthequery]]
Result of the query
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For `select` operations, the result is an instance of
`List<Map<String, Object>>` type, as returned by the
http://static.springframework.org/spring/docs/2.5.x/api/org/springframework/jdbc/core/JdbcTemplate.html#queryForList(java.lang.String,%20java.lang.Object%91%93)[JdbcTemplate.queryForList()]
method. For `update` operations, the result is the number of updated
rows, returned as an `Integer`.

By default, the result is placed in the message body.  If the
outputHeader parameter is set, the result is placed in the header.  This
is an alternative to using a full message enrichment pattern to add
headers, it provides a concise syntax for querying a sequence or some
other small value into a header.  It is convenient to use outputHeader
and outputType together:

javafrom("jms:order.inbox") .to("sql:select order_seq.nextval from
dual?outputHeader=OrderId&outputType=SelectOne")
.to("jms:order.booking");

[[SQLComponent-UsingStreamList]]
Using StreamList
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

From *Camel 2.18* onwards the producer supports outputType=StreamList
that uses an iterator to stream the output of the query. This allows to
process the data in a streaming fashion which for example can be used by
the link:splitter.html[Splitter] EIP to process each row one at a time,
and load data from the database as needed.

javafrom("direct:withSplitModel") .to("sql:select * from projects order
by
id?outputType=StreamList&outputClass=org.apache.camel.component.sql.ProjectModel")
.to("log:stream") .split(body()).streaming() .to("log:row")
.to("mock:result") .end();

 

[[SQLComponent-Headervalues]]
Header values
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When performing `update` operations, the SQL Component stores the update
count in the following message headers:

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Header |Description
|`CamelSqlUpdateCount` |The number of rows updated for `update`
operations, returned as an `Integer` object. This header is not provided
when using outputType=StreamList.

|`CamelSqlRowCount` |The number of rows returned for `select`
operations, returned as an `Integer` object. This header is not provided
when using outputType=StreamList.

|`CamelSqlQuery` |*Camel 2.8:* Query to execute. This query takes
precedence over the query specified in the endpoint URI. Note that query
parameters in the header _are_ represented by a `?` instead of a `#`
symbol
|=======================================================================

When performing `insert` operations, the SQL Component stores the rows
with the generated keys and number of these rown in the following
message headers (*Available as of Camel 2.12.4, 2.13.1*):

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|=================================================================
|Header |Description
a|
....
CamelSqlGeneratedKeysRowCount
....

 |The number of rows in the header that contains generated keys.
a|
....
CamelSqlGeneratedKeyRows
....

 | Rows that contains the generated keys (a list of maps of keys).
|=================================================================

[[SQLComponent-Generatedkeys]]
Generated keys
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Available as of Camel 2.12.4, 2.13.1 and 2.14 +
*

If you insert data using SQL INSERT, then the RDBMS may support auto
generated keys. You can instruct the SQL producer to return the
generated keys in headers. +
To do that set the header `CamelSqlRetrieveGeneratedKeys=true`. Then the
generated keys will be provided as headers with the keys listed in the
table above.

You can see more details in this
https://git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf?p=camel.git;a=blob_plain;f=components/camel-sql/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/sql/SqlGeneratedKeysTest.java;hb=3962b23f94bb4bc23011b931add08c3f6833c82e[unit
test].

[[SQLComponent-Configuration]]
Configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can now set a reference to a `DataSource` in the URI directly:

sql:select * from table where id=# order by name?dataSource=myDS

[[SQLComponent-Sample]]
Sample
^^^^^^

In the sample below we execute a query and retrieve the result as a
`List` of rows, where each row is a `Map<String, Object` and the key is
the column name.

First, we set up a table to use for our sample. As this is based on an
unit test, we do it in
java:\{snippet:id=e2|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-sql/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/sql/SqlDataSourceRefTest.java}The
SQL script `createAndPopulateDatabase.sql` we execute looks like as
described
below:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=sql|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-sql/src/test/resources/sql/createAndPopulateDatabase.sql}Then
we configure our route and our `sql` component. Notice that we use a
`direct` endpoint in front of the `sql` endpoint. This allows us to send
an exchange to the `direct` endpoint with the URI, `direct:simple`,
which is much easier for the client to use than the long `sql:` URI.
Note that the `DataSource` is looked up up in the registry, so we can
use standard Spring XML to configure our
`DataSource`.\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-sql/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/sql/SqlDataSourceRefTest.java}And
then we fire the message into the `direct` endpoint that will route it
to our `sql` component that queries the
database.\{snippet:id=e3|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-sql/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/sql/SqlDataSourceRefTest.java}We
could configure the `DataSource` in Spring XML as follows:

xml <jee:jndi-lookup id="myDS" jndi-name="jdbc/myDataSource"/>

[[SQLComponent-Usingnamedparameters]]
Using named parameters
++++++++++++++++++++++

*Available as of Camel 2.11*

In the given route below, we want to get all the projects from the
projects table. Notice the SQL query has 2 named parameters, :#lic and
:#min. +
Camel will then lookup for these parameters from the message body or
message headers. Notice in the example above we set two headers with
constant value +
for the named parameters:

java from("direct:projects") .setHeader("lic", constant("ASF"))
.setHeader("min", constant(123)) .to("sql:select * from projects where
license = :#lic and id > :#min order by id")

Though if the message body is a `java.util.Map` then the named
parameters will be taken from the body.

java from("direct:projects") .to("sql:select * from projects where
license = :#lic and id > :#min order by id")

[[SQLComponent-Usingexpressionparameters]]
Using expression parameters
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*Available as of Camel 2.14*

In the given route below, we want to get all the project from the
database. It uses the body of the exchange for defining the license and
uses the value of a property as the second parameter.

javafrom("direct:projects") .setBody(constant("ASF"))
.setProperty("min", constant(123)) .to("sql:select * from projects where
license = :#$\{body} and id > :#$\{property.min} order by id")

[[SQLComponent-UsingINquerieswithdynamicvalues]]
Using IN queries with dynamic values
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*Available as of Camel 2.17*

From Camel 2.17 onwards the SQL producer allows to use SQL queries with
IN statements where the IN values is dynamic computed. For example from
the message body or a header etc.

To use IN you need to:

* prefix the parameter name with `in:`
* add `( )` around the parameter

An example explains this better. The following query is used:

-- this is a comment select * from projects where project in
(:#in:names) order by id

In the following route:

from("direct:query") .to("sql:classpath:sql/selectProjectsIn.sql")
.to("log:query") .to("mock:query");

Then the IN query can use a header with the key names with the dynamic
values such as:

// use an array template.requestBodyAndHeader("direct:query", "Hi
there!", "names", new String[]\{"Camel", "AMQ"}); // use a list
List<String> names = new ArrayList<String>(); names.add("Camel");
names.add("AMQ"); template.requestBodyAndHeader("direct:query", "Hi
there!", "names", names); // use a string separated values with comma
template.requestBodyAndHeader("direct:query", "Hi there!", "names",
"Camel,AMQ");

The query can also be specified in the endpoint instead of being
externalized (notice that externalizing makes maintaining the SQL
queries easier)

from("direct:query") .to("sql:select * from projects where project in
(:#in:names) order by id") .to("log:query") .to("mock:query");

 

[[SQLComponent-UsingtheJDBCbasedidempotentrepository]]
Using the JDBC based idempotent repository
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*Available as of Camel 2.7*: In this section we will use the JDBC based
idempotent repository.

Abstract class From Camel 2.9 onwards there is an abstract
class `org.apache.camel.processor.idempotent.jdbc.AbstractJdbcMessageIdRepository` you
can extend to build custom JDBC idempotent repository.

First we have to create the database table which will be used by the
idempotent repository. For *Camel 2.7*, we use the following schema:

sqlCREATE TABLE CAMEL_MESSAGEPROCESSED ( processorName VARCHAR(255),
messageId VARCHAR(100) ) 

In *Camel 2.8*, we added the createdAt column:

sqlCREATE TABLE CAMEL_MESSAGEPROCESSED ( processorName VARCHAR(255),
messageId VARCHAR(100), createdAt TIMESTAMP )  The SQL
Server *TIMESTAMP* type is a fixed-length binary-string type. It does
not map to any of the JDBC time types: *DATE*, *TIME*, or *TIMESTAMP*.

 

We recommend to have a unique constraint on the columns processorName
and messageId. Because the syntax for this constraint differs for
database to database, we do not show it here.

Second we need to setup a `javax.sql.DataSource` in the spring XML file:

xml<jdbc:embedded-database id="dataSource" type="DERBY" /> 

 +
And finally we can create our JDBC idempotent repository in the spring
XML file as well:

xml <bean id="messageIdRepository"
class="org.apache.camel.processor.idempotent.jdbc.JdbcMessageIdRepository">
<constructor-arg ref="dataSource" /> <constructor-arg
value="myProcessorName" /> </bean> 

 +
Customize the JdbcMessageIdRepository

Starting with *Camel 2.9.1* you have a few options to tune the
`org.apache.camel.processor.idempotent.jdbc.JdbcMessageIdRepository` for
your needs:

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Parameter |Default Value |Description
|createTableIfNotExists |true |Defines whether or not Camel should try
to create the table if it doesn't exist.

|tableExistsString |SELECT 1 FROM CAMEL_MESSAGEPROCESSED WHERE 1 = 0
|This query is used to figure out whether the table already exists or
not. It must throw an exception to indicate the table doesn't exist.

|createString |CREATE TABLE CAMEL_MESSAGEPROCESSED (processorName
VARCHAR(255), messageId VARCHAR(100), createdAt TIMESTAMP) |The
statement which is used to create the table.

|queryString |SELECT COUNT(*) FROM CAMEL_MESSAGEPROCESSED WHERE
processorName = ? AND messageId = ? |The query which is used to figure
out whether the message already exists in the repository (the result is
not equals to '0'). It takes two parameters. This first one is the
processor name (`String`) and the second one is the message id
(`String`).

|insertString |INSERT INTO CAMEL_MESSAGEPROCESSED (processorName,
messageId, createdAt) VALUES (?, ?, ?) |The statement which is used to
add the entry into the table. It takes three parameter. The first one is
the processor name (`String`), the second one is the message id
(`String`) and the third one is the timestamp (`java.sql.Timestamp`)
when this entry was added to the repository.

|deleteString |DELETE FROM CAMEL_MESSAGEPROCESSED WHERE processorName =
? AND messageId = ? |The statement which is used to delete the entry
from the database. It takes two parameter. This first one is the
processor name (`String`) and the second one is the message id
(`String`).
|=======================================================================

 

A customized
`org.apache.camel.processor.idempotent.jdbc.JdbcMessageIdRepository`
could look like:

xml <bean id="messageIdRepository"
class="org.apache.camel.processor.idempotent.jdbc.JdbcMessageIdRepository">
<constructor-arg ref="dataSource" /> <constructor-arg
value="myProcessorName" /> <property name="tableExistsString"
value="SELECT 1 FROM CUSTOMIZED_MESSAGE_REPOSITORY WHERE 1 = 0" />
<property name="createString" value="CREATE TABLE
CUSTOMIZED_MESSAGE_REPOSITORY (processorName VARCHAR(255), messageId
VARCHAR(100), createdAt TIMESTAMP)" /> <property name="queryString"
value="SELECT COUNT(*) FROM CUSTOMIZED_MESSAGE_REPOSITORY WHERE
processorName = ? AND messageId = ?" /> <property name="insertString"
value="INSERT INTO CUSTOMIZED_MESSAGE_REPOSITORY (processorName,
messageId, createdAt) VALUES (?, ?, ?)" /> <property name="deleteString"
value="DELETE FROM CUSTOMIZED_MESSAGE_REPOSITORY WHERE processorName = ?
AND messageId = ?" /> </bean>

 +
Using the JDBC based aggregation repository

*Available as of Camel 2.6*

Using JdbcAggregationRepository in Camel 2.6 In Camel 2.6, the
JdbcAggregationRepository is provided in
the `camel-jdbc-aggregator` component. From Camel 2.7 onwards,
the `JdbcAggregationRepository` is provided in
the `camel-sql` component.

`JdbcAggregationRepository` is an `AggregationRepository` which on the
fly persists the aggregated messages. This ensures that you will not
loose messages, as the default aggregator will use an in memory only
`AggregationRepository`.

The `JdbcAggregationRepository` allows together with Camel to provide
persistent support for the link:aggregator2.html[Aggregator].

It has the following options:

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Type |Description
|dataSource |DataSource |*Mandatory:* The `javax.sql.DataSource` to use
for accessing the database.

|repositoryName |String |*Mandatory:* The name of the repository.

|transactionManager |TransactionManager
|*Mandatory:* The `org.springframework.transaction.PlatformTransactionManager` to
mange transactions for the database. The TransactionManager must be able
to support databases.

|lobHandler |LobHandler
|A `org.springframework.jdbc.support.lob.LobHandler` to handle Lob types
in the database. Use this option to use a vendor specific LobHandler,
for example when using Oracle.

|returnOldExchange |boolean |Whether the get operation should return the
old existing Exchange if any existed. By default this option
is `false` to optimize as we do not need the old exchange when
aggregating.

|useRecovery |boolean |Whether or not recovery is enabled. This option
is by default `true`. When enabled the
Camel link:aggregator2.html[Aggregator] automatic recover failed
aggregated exchange and have them resubmitted.

|recoveryInterval |long |If recovery is enabled then a background task
is run every x'th time to scan for failed exchanges to recover and
resubmit. By default this interval is 5000 millis.

|maximumRedeliveries |int |Allows you to limit the maximum number of
redelivery attempts for a recovered exchange. If enabled then the
Exchange will be moved to the dead letter channel if all redelivery
attempts failed. By default this option is disabled. If this option is
used then the `deadLetterUri` option must also be provided.

|`deadLetterUri` |String |An endpoint uri for
a link:dead-letter-channel.html[Dead Letter Channel] where exhausted
recovered Exchanges will be moved. If this option is used then
the `maximumRedeliveries` option must also be provided.

|storeBodyAsText |boolean |*Camel 2.11:* Whether to store the message
body as String which is human readable. By default this option
is `false` storing the body in binary format.

|headersToStoreAsText |List<String> | *Camel 2.11:* Allows to store
headers as String which is human readable. By default this option is
disabled, storing the headers in binary format.

|jdbcOptimisticLockingExceptionMapper
|jdbcOptimisticLockingExceptionMapper |*Camel 2.12:* Allows to plugin a
custom `org.apache.camel.processor.aggregate.jdbc.JdbcOptimisticLockingExceptionMapper` to
map vendor specific error codes to an optimistick locking error, for
Camel to perform a retry. This requires `optimisticLocking` to be
enabled.
|=======================================================================

Optimistic Locking

Optimistic locking is set to on by default.  If two exchanges attempt to
insert at the same time an exception will thrown, caught, converted to
an OptimisticLockingException, and rethrown.  

[[SQLComponent-Whatispreservedwhenpersisting]]
What is preserved when persisting
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

`JdbcAggregationRepository` will only preserve any `Serializable`
compatible data types. If a data type is not such a type its dropped and
a `WARN` is logged. And it only persists the `Message` body and the
`Message` headers. The `Exchange` properties are *not* persisted.

From Camel 2.11 onwards you can store the message body and select(ed)
headers as String in separate columns.

Recovery

The `JdbcAggregationRepository` will by default recover any failed
link:exchange.html[Exchange]. It does this by having a background tasks
that scans for failed link:exchange.html[Exchange]s in the persistent
store. You can use the `checkInterval` option to set how often this task
runs. The recovery works as transactional which ensures that Camel will
try to recover and redeliver the failed link:exchange.html[Exchange].
Any link:exchange.html[Exchange] which was found to be recovered will be
restored from the persistent store and resubmitted and send out again.

The following headers is set when an link:exchange.html[Exchange] is
being recovered/redelivered:

 

[cols=",,",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Header |Type |Description
|Exchange.REDELIVERED |Boolean |Is set to true to indicate
the link:exchange.html[Exchange] is being redelivered.

|Exchange.REDELIVERY_COUNTER |Integer |The redelivery attempt, starting
from 1.
|=======================================================================

 

Only when an link:exchange.html[Exchange] has been successfully
processed it will be marked as complete which happens when the `confirm`
method is invoked on the `AggregationRepository`. This means if the same
link:exchange.html[Exchange] fails again it will be kept retried until
it success.

You can use option `maximumRedeliveries` to limit the maximum number of
redelivery attempts for a given recovered link:exchange.html[Exchange].
You must also set the `deadLetterUri` option so Camel knows where to
send the link:exchange.html[Exchange] when the `maximumRedeliveries` was
hit.

You can see some examples in the unit tests of camel-sql, for example
https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/camel/trunk/components/camel-sql/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/processor/aggregate/jdbc/JdbcAggregateRecoverDeadLetterChannelTest.java[this
test].

Database

To be operational, each aggregator uses two table: the aggregation and
completed one. By convention the completed has the same name as the
aggregation one suffixed with `"_COMPLETED"`. The name must be
configured in the Spring bean with the `RepositoryName` property. In the
following example aggregation will be used.

The table structure definition of both table are identical: in both case
a String value is used as key (*id*) whereas a Blob contains the
exchange serialized in byte array. +
However one difference should be remembered: the *id* field does not
have the same content depending on the table. +
In the aggregation table *id* holds the correlation Id used by the
component to aggregate the messages. In the completed table, *id* holds
the id of the exchange stored in corresponding the blob field.

Here is the SQL query used to create the tables, just replace
`"aggregation"` with your aggregator repository name.

sql CREATE TABLE aggregation ( id varchar(255) NOT NULL, exchange blob
NOT NULL, constraint aggregation_pk PRIMARY KEY (id) ); CREATE TABLE
aggregation_completed ( id varchar(255) NOT NULL, exchange blob NOT
NULL, constraint aggregation_completed_pk PRIMARY KEY (id) );

Storing body and headers as text

*Available as of Camel 2.11*

You can configure the `JdbcAggregationRepository` to store message body
and select(ed) headers as String in separate columns. For example to
store the body, and the following two headers `companyName` and
`accountName` use the following SQL:

sqlCREATE TABLE aggregationRepo3 ( id varchar(255) NOT NULL, exchange
blob NOT NULL, body varchar(1000), companyName varchar(1000),
accountName varchar(1000), constraint aggregationRepo3_pk PRIMARY KEY
(id) ); CREATE TABLE aggregationRepo3_completed ( id varchar(255) NOT
NULL, exchange blob NOT NULL, body varchar(1000), companyName
varchar(1000), accountName varchar(1000), constraint
aggregationRepo3_completed_pk PRIMARY KEY (id) );

And then configure the repository to enable this behavior as shown
below:

xml <bean id="repo3"
class="org.apache.camel.processor.aggregate.jdbc.JdbcAggregationRepository">
<property name="repositoryName" value="aggregationRepo3"/> <property
name="transactionManager" ref="txManager3"/> <property name="dataSource"
ref="dataSource3"/> <!-- configure to store the message body and
following headers as text in the repo --> <property
name="storeBodyAsText" value="true"/> <property
name="headersToStoreAsText"> <list> <value>companyName</value>
<value>accountName</value> </list> </property> </bean>

Codec (Serialization)

Since they can contain any type of payload, Exchanges are not
serializable by design. It is converted into a byte array to be stored
in a database BLOB field. All those conversions are handled by the
`JdbcCodec` class. One detail of the code requires your attention: the
`ClassLoadingAwareObjectInputStream`.

The `ClassLoadingAwareObjectInputStream` has been reused from the
http://activemq.apache.org/[Apache ActiveMQ] project. It wraps an
`ObjectInputStream` and use it with the `ContextClassLoader` rather than
the `currentThread` one. The benefit is to be able to load classes
exposed by other bundles. This allows the exchange body and headers to
have custom types object references.

Transaction

A Spring `PlatformTransactionManager` is required to orchestrate
transaction.

Service (Start/Stop)

The `start` method verify the connection of the database and the
presence of the required tables. If anything is wrong it will fail
during starting.

Aggregator configuration

Depending on the targeted environment, the aggregator might need some
configuration. As you already know, each aggregator should have its own
repository (with the corresponding pair of table created in the
database) and a data source. If the default lobHandler is not adapted to
your database system, it can be injected with the `lobHandler` property.

Here is the declaration for Oracle:

xml <bean id="lobHandler"
class="org.springframework.jdbc.support.lob.OracleLobHandler"> <property
name="nativeJdbcExtractor" ref="nativeJdbcExtractor"/> </bean> <bean
id="nativeJdbcExtractor"
class="org.springframework.jdbc.support.nativejdbc.CommonsDbcpNativeJdbcExtractor"/>
<bean id="repo"
class="org.apache.camel.processor.aggregate.jdbc.JdbcAggregationRepository">
<property name="transactionManager" ref="transactionManager"/> <property
name="repositoryName" value="aggregation"/> <property name="dataSource"
ref="dataSource"/> <!-- Only with Oracle, else use default --> <property
name="lobHandler" ref="lobHandler"/> </bean>

Optimistic locking

From *Camel 2.12* onwards you can turn on `optimisticLocking` and use
this JDBC based aggregation repository in a clustered environment where
multiple Camel applications shared the same database for the aggregation
repository. If there is a race condition there JDBC driver will throw a
vendor specific exception which the `JdbcAggregationRepository` can
react upon. To know which caused exceptions from the JDBC driver is
regarded as an optimistick locking error we need a mapper to do this.
Therefore there is a
`org.apache.camel.processor.aggregate.jdbc.JdbcOptimisticLockingExceptionMapper`
allows you to implement your custom logic if needed. There is a default
implementation
`org.apache.camel.processor.aggregate.jdbc.DefaultJdbcOptimisticLockingExceptionMapper`
which works as follows:

The following check is done:

If the caused exception is an `SQLException` then the SQLState is
checked if starts with 23.

If the caused exception is a `DataIntegrityViolationException`

If the caused exception class name has "ConstraintViolation" in its
name.

optional checking for FQN class name matches if any class names has been
configured

You can in addition add FQN classnames, and if any of the caused
exception (or any nested) equals any of the FQN class names, then its an
optimistick locking error.

Here is an example, where we define 2 extra FQN class names from the
JDBC vendor.

xml <bean id="repo"
class="org.apache.camel.processor.aggregate.jdbc.JdbcAggregationRepository">
<property name="transactionManager" ref="transactionManager"/> <property
name="repositoryName" value="aggregation"/> <property name="dataSource"
ref="dataSource"/> <property name"jdbcOptimisticLockingExceptionMapper"
ref="myExceptionMapper"/> </bean> <!-- use the default mapper with extra
FQN class names from our JDBC driver --> <bean id="myExceptionMapper"
class="org.apache.camel.processor.aggregate.jdbc.DefaultJdbcOptimisticLockingExceptionMapper">
<property name="classNames"> <util:set>
<value>com.foo.sql.MyViolationExceptoion</value>
<value>com.foo.sql.MyOtherViolationExceptoion</value> </util:set>
</property> </bean>

 

link:endpoint-see-also.html[Endpoint See Also]

link:sql-stored-procedure.html[SQL Stored Procedure]

link:jdbc.html[JDBC]
