[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[Stream-StreamComponent]]
Stream Component
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The *stream:* component provides access to the `System.in`, `System.out`
and `System.err` streams as well as allowing streaming of file and URL.

Maven users will need to add the following dependency to their `pom.xml`
for this component:

xml<dependency> <groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId>
<artifactId>camel-stream</artifactId> <version>x.x.x</version> <!-- use
the same version as your Camel core version --> </dependency>

[[Stream-URIformat]]
URI format
^^^^^^^^^^

stream:in[?options] stream:out[?options] stream:err[?options]
stream:header[?options]

In addition, the `file` and `url` endpoint URIs are supported:

stream:file?fileName=/foo/bar.txt stream:url[?options]

If the `stream:header` URI is specified, the `stream` header is used to
find the stream to write to. This option is available only for stream
producers (that is, it cannot appear in `from()`).

You can append query options to the URI in the following format,
`?option=value&option=value&...`

[[Stream-Options]]
Options
^^^^^^^

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Name |Default Value |Description
|`delay` |`0` |Initial delay in milliseconds before consuming or
producing the stream.

|`encoding` |_JVM Default_ |You can configure the encoding (is a
http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/api/java/nio/charset/Charset.html[charset
name]) to use text-based streams (for example, message body is a
`String` object). If not provided, Camel uses the
http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/api/java/nio/charset/Charset.html#defaultCharset()[JVM
default Charset].

|`promptMessage` |`null` |Message prompt to use when reading from
`stream:in`; for example, you could set this to `Enter a command:`

|`promptDelay` |`0` |Optional delay in milliseconds before showing the
message prompt.

|`initialPromptDelay` |`2000` |Initial delay in milliseconds before
showing the message prompt. This delay occurs only once. Can be used
during system startup to avoid message prompts being written while other
logging is done to the system out.

|`fileName` |`null` |When using the `stream:file` URI format, this
option specifies the filename to stream to/from.

|`url` |`null` |When using the `stream:url` URI format, this option
specifies the URL to stream to/from. The input/output stream will be
opened using the
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/api/java/net/URLConnection.html[JDK
URLConnection] facility.

|`scanStream` |`false` |To be used for continuously reading a stream
such as the unix `tail` command. +
*Camel 2.4 to Camel 2.6:* will retry opening the file if it is
overwritten, somewhat like `tail --retry`

|`retry` |`false` |*Camel 2.7:* will retry opening the file if it's
overwritten, somewhat like `tail --retry`

|`scanStreamDelay` |`0` |Delay in milliseconds between read attempts
when using `scanStream`.

|`groupLines` |`0` |*Camel 2.5:* To group X number of lines in the
consumer. For example to group 10 lines and therefore only spit out an
link:exchange.html[Exchange] with 10 lines, instead of 1
link:exchange.html[Exchange] per line.

|`autoCloseCount` |`0` |*Camel 2.10.0:* (2.9.3 and 2.8.6) Number of
messages to process before closing stream on Producer side. Never close
stream by default (only when Producer is stopped). If more messages are
sent, the stream is reopened for another `autoCloseCount` batch.

|`closeOnDone` |`false` |*Camel 2.11.0:* This option is used in
combination with link:splitter.html[Splitter] and streaming to the same
file. The idea is to keep the stream open and only close when the
link:splitter.html[Splitter] is done, to improve performance. Mind this
requires that you only stream to the same file, and not 2 or more files,
and that the last split message that carries the information that its
the last, is routed to the stream endpoint so it gets the signal to
close.
|=======================================================================

[[Stream-Messagecontent]]
Message content
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The *stream:* component supports either `String` or `byte[]` for writing
to streams. Just add either `String` or `byte[]` content to the
`message.in.body`. Messages sent to the *stream:* producer in binary
mode are not followed by the newline character (as opposed to the
`String` messages). Message with `null` body will not be appended to the
output stream. +
The special `stream:header` URI is used for custom output streams. Just
add a `java.io.OutputStream` object to `message.in.header` in the key
`header`. +
See samples for an example.

[[Stream-Samples]]
Samples
^^^^^^^

In the following sample we route messages from the `direct:in` endpoint
to the `System.out` stream:

java// Route messages to the standard output.
from("direct:in").to("stream:out"); // Send String payload to the
standard output. // Message will be followed by the newline.
template.sendBody("direct:in", "Hello Text World"); // Send byte[]
payload to the standard output. // No newline will be added after the
message. template.sendBody("direct:in", "Hello Bytes World".getBytes());

The following sample demonstrates how the header type can be used to
determine which stream to use. In the sample we use our own output
stream,
`MyOutputStream`.\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-stream/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/stream/StreamHeaderTest.java}The
following sample demonstrates how to continuously read a file stream
(analogous to the UNIX `tail` command):

javafrom("stream:file?fileName=/server/logs/server.log&scanStream=true&scanStreamDelay=1000").to("bean:logService?method=parseLogLine");

One gotcha with scanStream (pre Camel 2.7) or scanStream + retry is the
file will be re-opened and scanned with each iteration of
scanStreamDelay. Until NIO2 is available we cannot reliably detect when
a file is deleted/recreated.

link:endpoint-see-also.html[Endpoint See Also]
