[[ConfluenceContent]]
We have a number of tutorials as listed below. The tutorials often comes
with source code which is either available in the Camel
link:download.html[Download] or attached to the wiki page.

**Notice**

These tutorials listed below, is hosted at Apache. We offer the
link:articles.html[Articles] page where we have a link collection for
3rd party Camel material, such as tutorials, blog posts, published
articles, videos, pod casts, presentations, and so forth.

If you have written a Camel related article, then we are happy to
provide a link to it. You can contact the Camel link:team.html[Team],
for example using the link:mailing-lists.html[Mailing Lists], (or post a
tweet with the word Apache Camel).

* link:tutorial-oauth.html[OAuth Tutorial] +
This tutorial demonstrates how to implement OAuth for a web application
with Camel's link:gauth.html[gauth] component. The sample application of
this tutorial is also online at http://gauthcloud.appspot.com/

* link:tutorial-for-camel-on-google-app-engine.html[Tutorial for Camel
on Google App Engine] +
This tutorial demonstrates the usage of the link:gae.html[Camel
Components for Google App Engine]. The sample application of this
tutorial is also online at http://camelcloud.appspot.com/

* link:tutorial-jmsremoting.html[Tutorial on Spring Remoting with JMS] +
This tutorial is focused on different techniques with Camel for
Client-Server communication.

* link:tutorial-example-reportincident.html[Report Incident - This
tutorial introduces Camel steadily and is based on a real life
integration problem] +
This is a very long tutorial beginning from the start; its for entry
level to Camel. Its based on a real life integration, showing how Camel
can be introduced in an existing solution. We do this in baby steps. The
tutorial is currently work in progress, so check it out from time to
time. The tutorial explains some of the inner building blocks Camel uses
under the covers. This is good knowledge to have when you start using
Camel on a higher abstract level where it can do wonders in a few lines
of routing DSL.

* http://servicemix.apache.org/3-beginner-using-apache-camel-inside-servicemix.html[Using
Camel with ServiceMix] a tutorial on using Camel inside
http://servicemix.apache.org/home.html[Apache ServiceMix].

* link:better-jms-transport-for-cxf-webservice-using-apache-camel.html[Better
JMS Transport for CXF Webservice using Apache Camel] Describes how to
use the Camel Transport for CXF to attach a CXF Webservice to a JMS
Queue

* link:tutorial-axis-camel.html[Tutorial how to use good old Axis 1.4
with Camel] +
This tutorial shows that Camel does work with the good old frameworks
such as AXIS that is/was widely used for WebService.

* link:tutorial-on-using-camel-in-a-web-application.html[Tutorial on
using Camel in a Web Application] +
This tutorial gives an overview of how to use Camel inside Tomcat, Jetty
or any other servlet engine

* link:tutorial-business-partners.html[Tutorial on Camel 1.4 for
Integration] +
Another real-life scenario. The company sells widgets, with a somewhat
unique business process (their customers periodically report what
they've purchased in order to get billed). However every customer uses a
different data format and protocol. This tutorial goes through the
process of integrating (and testing!) several customers and their
electronic reporting of the widgets they've bought, along with the
company's response.

* Tutorial how to build a Service Oriented Architecture using Camel with
OSGI - Updated 20/11/2009 +
The tutorial has been designed in two parts.
link:tutorial-osgi-camel-part1.html[The first part] introduces basic
concept to create a simple SOA solution using Camel and OSGI and deploy
it in a OSGI Server like Apache Felix Karaf and Spring DM Server while
the link:tutorial-osgi-camel-part2.html[second] extends the
link:tutorial-example-reportincident.html[ReportIncident tutorial] part
4 to show How we can separate the different layers (domain, service,
...) of an application and deploy them in separate bundles. The Web
Application has also be modified in order to communicate to the OSGI
bundles.

* Several of the vendors on the
link:commercial-camel-offerings.html[Commercial Camel Offerings] page
also offer various tutorials, webinars, examples, etc.... that may be
useful.

* link:examples.html[Examples] +
While not actual tutorials you might find working through the source of
the various link:examples.html[Examples] useful.
