[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[WalkthroughanExample-WalkthroughanExampleCode]]
Walk through an Example Code
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This mini-guide takes you through the source code of a
https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/camel/trunk/examples/camel-example-jms-file/src/main/java/org/apache/camel/example/jmstofile/CamelJmsToFileExample.java[simple
example].

Camel can be configured either by using link:spring.html[Spring] or
directly in Java - which
https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/camel/trunk/examples/camel-example-jms-file/src/main/java/org/apache/camel/example/jmstofile/CamelJmsToFileExample.java[this
example does].

This example is available in the `examples\camel-example-jms-file`
directory of the link:download.html[Camel distribution].

We start with creating a link:camelcontext.html[CamelContext] - which is
a container for link:components.html[Components],
link:routes.html[Routes]
etc:\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/examples/camel-example-jms-file/src/main/java/org/apache/camel/example/jmstofile/CamelJmsToFileExample.java}There
is more than one way of adding a Component to the CamelContext. You can
add components implicitly - when we set up the routing - as we do here
for the
link:file2.html[FileComponent]:\{snippet:id=e3|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/examples/camel-example-jms-file/src/main/java/org/apache/camel/example/jmstofile/CamelJmsToFileExample.java}or
explicitly - as we do here when we add the JMS
Component:\{snippet:id=e2|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/examples/camel-example-jms-file/src/main/java/org/apache/camel/example/jmstofile/CamelJmsToFileExample.java}The
above works with any JMS provider. If we know we are using
link:activemq.html[ActiveMQ] we can use an even simpler form using the
http://activemq.apache.org/maven/5.5.0/activemq-camel/apidocs/org/apache/activemq/camel/component/ActiveMQComponent.html#activeMQComponent%28java.lang.String%29[`activeMQComponent()`
method] while specifying the
http://activemq.apache.org/configuring-transports.html[brokerURL] used
to connect to ActiveMQ

In normal use, an external system would be firing messages or events
directly into Camel through one if its link:components.html[Components]
but we are going to use the
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/ProducerTemplate.html[ProducerTemplate]
which is a really easy way for testing your
configuration:\{snippet:id=e4|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/examples/camel-example-jms-file/src/main/java/org/apache/camel/example/jmstofile/CamelJmsToFileExample.java}Next
you *must* start the camel context. If you are using
link:spring.html[Spring] to configure the camel context this is
automatically done for you; though if you are using a pure Java approach
then you just need to call the start() method

camelContext.start();

This will start all of the configured routing rules.

So after starting the link:camelcontext.html[CamelContext], we can fire
some objects into
camel:\{snippet:id=e5|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/examples/camel-example-jms-file/src/main/java/org/apache/camel/example/jmstofile/CamelJmsToFileExample.java}

[[WalkthroughanExample-Whathappens?]]
What happens?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

From the
http://camel.apache.org/maven/current/camel-core/apidocs/org/apache/camel/ProducerTemplate.html[ProducerTemplate]
- we send objects (in this case text) into the
link:camelcontext.html[CamelContext] to the Component
_test-jms:queue:test.queue_. These text objects will be
link:type-converter.html[converted automatically] into JMS Messages and
posted to a JMS Queue named _test.queue_. When we set up the
link:routes.html[Route], we configured the
link:file2.html[FileComponent] to listen off the _test.queue_.

The File link:file2.html[FileComponent] will take messages off the
Queue, and save them to a directory named _test_. Every message will be
saved in a file that corresponds to its destination and message id.

Finally, we configured our own listener in the link:routes.html[Route] -
to take notifications from the link:file2.html[FileComponent] and print
them out as text.

*That's it!*

If you have the time then use 5 more minutes to
link:walk-through-another-example.html[Walk through another example]
that demonstrates the Spring DSL (XML based) routing.
