[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[Websocket-WebsocketComponent]]
Websocket Component
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*Available as of Camel 2.10*

The *websocket* component provides websocket
link:endpoint.html[endpoints] for communicating with clients using
websocket. The component uses Eclipse Jetty Server which implements the
http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6455[IETF] specification (drafts and RFC
6455). It supports the protocols ws:// and wss://. To use wss://
protocol, the SSLContextParameters must be defined.

Version currently supported

As Camel 2.10 uses Jetty 7.5.4.v20111024, only the D00 to
http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-hybi-thewebsocketprotocol-13[D13]
IETF implementations are available. +
Camel 2.11 uses Jetty 7.6.7.

[[Websocket-URIformat]]
URI format
^^^^^^^^^^

websocket://hostname[:port][/resourceUri][?options]

You can append query options to the URI in the following format,
`?option=value&option=value&...`

[[Websocket-ComponentOptions]]
Component Options
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The `WebsocketComponent` can be configured prior to use, to setup host,
to act as a websocket server.

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Default |Description
|host |0.0.0.0 |The hostname.

|port |9292 |The port number.

|staticResources |`null` |Path for static resources such as index.html
files etc. If this option has been configured, then a server is started
on the given hostname and port, to service the static resources, eg such
as an index.html file. If this option has not been configured, then no
server is started.

|sslContextParameters |  |Reference to a
`org.apache.camel.util.jsse.SSLContextParameters` in the
http://camel.apache.org/registry.html[Registry]. This reference
overrides any configured SSLContextParameters at the component level. 
See link:camel-configuration-utilities.html[Using the JSSE Configuration
Utility].

|`enableJmx` |`false` |If this option is true, Jetty JMX support will be
enabled for this endpoint. See link:websocket.html[Jetty JMX support]
for more details.

|`sslKeyPassword` |`null` |*Consumer only*: The password for the
keystore when using SSL.

|`sslPassword` |`null` |*Consumer only*: The password when using SSL.

|`sslKeystore` |`null` |*Consumer only*: The path to the keystore.

|`minThreads` |`1` |*Consumer only*: To set a value for minimum number
of threads in server thread pool. *From Camel 2.18*:
MinThreads/MaxThreads or threadPool fields are required due to switch to
Jetty 9

|`maxThreads` |`1 + noCores * 2` |*Consumer only*: To set a value for
maximum number of threads in server thread pool. *From Camel 2.18*:
MinThreads/MaxThreads or threadPool fields are required due to switch to
Jetty 9

|`threadPool` |`null` |*Consumer only*: To use a custom thread pool for
the server. *From Camel 2.18*: MinThreads/MaxThreads or threadPool
fields are required due to switch to Jetty 9
|=======================================================================

[[Websocket-EndpointOptions]]
Endpoint Options
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The `WebsocketEndpoint` can be configured prior to use

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Default |Description
|sslContextParametersRef |  |*Deprecated and will be removed in Camel
3.0:* Reference to a `org.apache.camel.util.jsse.SSLContextParameters`
in the http://camel.apache.org/registry.html[Registry].  This reference
overrides any configured SSLContextParameters at the component level.
See link:camel-configuration-utilities.html[Using the JSSE Configuration
Utility]. Use the `sslContextParameters` option instead

|sslContextParameters |  |*Camel 2.11.1:* Reference to a
`org.apache.camel.util.jsse.SSLContextParameters` in the
http://camel.apache.org/registry.html[Registry]. This reference
overrides any configured SSLContextParameters at the component level. 
See link:camel-configuration-utilities.html[Using the JSSE Configuration
Utility].

|sendToAll |`null` |*Producer only:* To send to all websocket
subscribers. Can be used to configure on endpoint level, instead of
having to use the `WebsocketConstants.SEND_TO_ALL` header on the
message.

|staticResources |`null` |The root directory for the web resources or
classpath. Use the protocol file: or classpath: depending if you want
that the component loads the resource from file system or classpath.

| bufferSize |`null` |*Camel 2.12.3:* set the buffer size of the
websocketServlet, which is also the max frame byte size (default 8192)

|maxIdleTime |`null` |*Camel 2.12.3:* set the time in ms that the
websocket created by the websocketServlet may be idle before closing.
(default is 300000)

|maxTextMessageSize |`null` |*Camel 2.12.3:* can be used to set the size
in characters that the websocket created by the websocketServlet may be
accept before closing.

|maxBinaryMessageSize |`null` |*Camel 2.12.3:* can be used to set the
size in bytes that the websocket created by the websocketServlet may be
accept before closing. (Default is -1 - or unlimited)

|minVersion |`null` |*Camel 2.12.3:* can be used to set the minimum
protocol version accepted for the websocketServlet. (Default 13 - the
RFC6455 version)

|sendTimeout |30000 |*Camel 2.18:* Timeout in millis when sending to a
websocket channel. The default timeout is 30000 (30 seconds).
|=======================================================================

 

[[Websocket-MessageHeaders]]
Message Headers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The websocket component uses 2 headers to indicate to either send
messages back to a single/current client, or to all clients.

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Key |Description
|`WebsocketConstants.SEND_TO_ALL` |Sends the message to all clients
which are currently connected. You can use the `sendToAll` option on the
endpoint instead of using this header.

|`WebsocketConstants.CONNECTION_KEY` |Sends the message to the client
with the given connection key.
|=======================================================================

[[Websocket-Usage]]
Usage
^^^^^

In this example we let Camel exposes a websocket server which clients
can communicate with. The websocket server uses the default host and
port, which would be `0.0.0.0:9292`. +
The example will send back an echo of the input. To send back a message,
we need to send the transformed message to the same endpoint
`"websocket://echo"`. This is needed +
because by default the messaging is
InOnly.\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-websocket/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/websocket/WebsocketRouteExampleTest.java}This
example is part of an unit test, which you can find
https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/camel/trunk/components/camel-websocket/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/websocket/WebsocketRouteExampleTest.java[here].
As a client we use the link:ahc.html[AHC] library which offers support
for web socket as well.

Here is another example where webapp resources location have been
defined to allow the Jetty Application Server to not only register the
WebSocket servlet but also to expose web resources for the browser.
Resources should be defined under the webapp directory.

javafrom("activemq:topic:newsTopic") .routeId("fromJMStoWebSocket")
.to("websocket://localhost:8443/newsTopic?sendToAll=true&staticResources=classpath:webapp");

[[Websocket-SettingupSSLforWebSocketComponent]]
Setting up SSL for WebSocket Component
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

[[Websocket-UsingtheJSSEConfigurationUtility]]
Using the JSSE Configuration Utility
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

As of Camel 2.10, the WebSocket component supports SSL/TLS configuration
through the link:camel-configuration-utilities.html[Camel JSSE
Configuration Utility].  This utility greatly decreases the amount of
component specific code you need to write and is configurable at the
endpoint and component levels.  The following examples demonstrate how
to use the utility with the Cometd component.

[[Websocket-Programmaticconfigurationofthecomponent]]
Programmatic configuration of the component

KeyStoreParameters ksp = new KeyStoreParameters();
ksp.setResource("/users/home/server/keystore.jks");
ksp.setPassword("keystorePassword"); KeyManagersParameters kmp = new
KeyManagersParameters(); kmp.setKeyStore(ksp);
kmp.setKeyPassword("keyPassword"); TrustManagersParameters tmp = new
TrustManagersParameters(); tmp.setKeyStore(ksp); SSLContextParameters
scp = new SSLContextParameters(); scp.setKeyManagers(kmp);
scp.setTrustManagers(tmp); CometdComponent commetdComponent =
getContext().getComponent("cometds", CometdComponent.class);
commetdComponent.setSslContextParameters(scp);

[[Websocket-SpringDSLbasedconfigurationofendpoint]]
Spring DSL based configuration of endpoint

xml... <camel:sslContextParameters id="sslContextParameters">
<camel:keyManagers keyPassword="keyPassword"> <camel:keyStore
resource="/users/home/server/keystore.jks" password="keystorePassword"/>
</camel:keyManagers> <camel:trustManagers> <camel:keyStore
resource="/users/home/server/keystore.jks" password="keystorePassword"/>
</camel:trustManagers> </camel:sslContextParameters>... ... <to
uri="websocket://127.0.0.1:8443/test?sslContextParameters=#sslContextParameters"/>...

[[Websocket-JavaDSLbasedconfigurationofendpoint]]
Java DSL based configuration of endpoint

java... protected RouteBuilder createRouteBuilder() throws Exception \{
return new RouteBuilder() \{ public void configure() \{ String uri =
"websocket://127.0.0.1:8443/test?sslContextParameters=#sslContextParameters";
from(uri) .log(">>> Message received from WebSocket Client : $\{body}")
.to("mock:client") .loop(10) .setBody().constant(">> Welcome on board!")
.to(uri); ...

link:endpoint-see-also.html[Endpoint See Also]

* link:ahc.html[AHC]
* link:jetty.html[Jetty]
* link:twitter-websocket-example.html[Twitter Websocket Example]
demonstrates how to poll a constant feed of twitter searches and publish
results in real time using web socket to a web page.
