[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[Whydoesmyfileconsumernotpickupthefile,andhowdoIletthefileconsumerusetheCamelerrorhandler?-Whydoesmyfileconsumernotpickupthefile,andhowdoIletthefileconsumerusetheCamelerrorhandler?]]
Why does my file consumer not pick up the file, and how do I let the
file consumer use the Camel error handler?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There could be several reasons why the link:file2.html[File] consumer is
not picking up files. For example it may not run at all, or it cannot
acquire a read lock on the file. +
link:logging-questions.html[Check the logs] for any exceptions or other
informative messages. You can
link:how-do-i-enable-debug-logging.html[turn on DEBUG logging] at
`org.apache.camel.component.file` to see more detail.

[[Whydoesmyfileconsumernotpickupthefile,andhowdoIletthefileconsumerusetheCamelerrorhandler?-HowtouseCamel'sroutingerrorhandlerswiththefileconsumer]]
How to use Camel's routing error handlers with the file consumer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Well, this is really a
"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chicken_or_the_egg[chicken or the egg]"
question. The Camel link:error-handling-in-camel.html[error handler]
(e.g., in the routes) only applies when a message is being routed by the
routing engine. +
Before this happens, a consumer must successfully receive a message,
create a Camel link:exchange.html[Exchange], populate the
link:exchange.html[Exchange] with message details (e.g., body and
headers), and then pass the link:exchange.html[Exchange] to the routing
engine. Only at this point can the routing error handler deal with
exceptions occurring. Before this point, any error handling is really
link:component.html[Component]-specific.

**Bridge with error handler**

From Camel 2.10 onwards the file and ftp consumers can now bridge to the
Camel routing engine's error handler. See more details at the
`consumer.bridgeErrorHandler` option on the link:file2.html[File]
documentation.

If the component consumer extends the
http://svn.apache.org/viewvc/camel/trunk/camel-core/src/main/java/org/apache/camel/impl/DefaultConsumer.java?view=markup[`DefaultConsumer`]
from Camel, then it offers an
http://svn.apache.org/viewvc/camel/trunk/camel-core/src/main/java/org/apache/camel/spi/ExceptionHandler.java?view=markup[`org.apache.camel.spi.ExceptionHandler`]
hook for end users to plug-in a custom strategy. The default
implementation from Camel is
http://svn.apache.org/viewvc/camel/trunk/camel-core/src/main/java/org/apache/camel/impl/LoggingExceptionHandler.java?view=markup[`LoggingExceptionHandler`]
that will log the exception at `ERROR`/`WARN` level, and then ignore the
exception.

See the link:file2.html[File] page in the bottom for an example how to
use a custom `ExceptionHandler` that sends a new message to the Camel
routing engine, which then allows the routing engine to trigger its own
error handling to deal with the exception.
