[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[XmlRpc-XmlRpcComponent]]
XmlRpc Component
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*Available as of Camel 2.11*

This component provides a dataformat for xml, which allows serialization
and deserialization of request messages and response message using
Apache XmlRpc's binary dataformat. You can also invoke the XMLRPC
Service through the camel-xmlrpc producer.

Maven users will need to add the following dependency to their `pom.xml`
for this component:

xml<dependency> <groupId>org.apache.camel</groupId>
<artifactId>camel-xmlrpc</artifactId> <version>x.x.x</version> <!-- use
the same version as your Camel core version --> </dependency>

[[XmlRpc-XmlRpcOverview]]
XmlRpc Overview
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

It's a http://xmlrpc.scripting.com/spec[spec] and a set of
implementations that allow software running on disparate operating
systems, running in different environments to make procedure calls over
the Internet.

It's remote procedure calling using HTTP as the transport and XML as the
encoding. XML-RPC is designed to be as simple as possible, while
allowing complex data structures to be transmitted, processed and
returned.

An example of a typical XML-RPC request would be:

<?xml version="1.0"?> <methodCall>
<methodName>examples.getStateName</methodName> <params> <param>
<value><i4>40</i4></value> </param> </params> </methodCall>

An example of a typical XML-RPC response would be:

<?xml version="1.0"?> <methodResponse> <params> <param>
<value><string>South Dakota</string></value> </param> </params>
</methodResponse>

A typical XML-RPC fault would be:

<?xml version="1.0"?> <methodResponse> <fault> <value> <struct> <member>
<name>faultCode</name> <value><int>4</int></value> </member> <member>
<name>faultString</name> <value><string>Too many
parameters.</string></value> </member> </struct> </value> </fault>
</methodResponse>

[[XmlRpc-URIformat]]
URI format
^^^^^^^^^^

xmlrpc://serverUri[?options]

[[XmlRpc-Options]]
Options
^^^^^^^

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Property |Default |Description
|`basicEncoding` |`null` |Sets the encoding for basic authentication,
null means UTF-8 is chosen.

|`basicUserName` |`null` |The user name for basic authentication.

|`basicPassword` |`null` |The password for basic authentication.

|`clientConfigurer` |`null` |The reference id of the XmlRpcClient
configurer which implement the interface of XmlRpcClientConfigurer to
setup the XmlRpcClient as user wants. The value should be start with "#"
such as "#myConfigurer"

|`connectionTimeout` |`0` |Set the connection timeout in milliseconds, 0
is to disable it

|`contentLengthOptional` |`false` |whether a "Content-Length" header may
be omitted. The XML-RPC specification demands, that such a header be
present.

|`enabledForExceptions` |`false` |whether the response should contain a
"faultCause" element in case of errors. The "faultCause" is an
exception, which the server has trapped and written into a byte stream
as a serializable object.

|`enabledForExtensions` |`false` |whether extensions are enabled. By
default, the client or server is strictly compliant to the XML-RPC
specification and extensions are disabled.

|`encoding` |`null` |Sets the requests encoding, null means UTF-8 is
chosen.

|`gzipCompressing` |`false` |Whether gzip compression is being used for
transmitting the request.

|`gzipRequesting` |`false` |Whether gzip compression is being used for
transmitting the request.

|`replyTimeout` |`0` |Set the reply timeout in milliseconds, 0 is to
disable it.

|`userAgent` |`null` |The http user agent header to set when doing
xmlrpc requests

|`defaultMethodName` |`null` |Since *Camel 2.14.0*: The method name
which would be used for the xmlrpc requests by default, if the Message
header CamelXmlRpcMethodName is not set.
|=======================================================================

[[XmlRpc-MessageHeaders]]
Message Headers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Camel XmlRpc uses these headers.

confluenceTableSmall

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Header |Description
|`CamelXmlRpcMethodName` |The XmlRpc method name which will be use for
invoking the XmlRpc server.
|=======================================================================

[[XmlRpc-UsingtheXmlRpcdataformat]]
Using the XmlRpc data format
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

As the XmlRpc message could be request or response, when you use the
XmlRpcDataFormat, you need to specify the dataformat is for request or
not.

\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-xmlrpc/src/test/resources/org/apache/camel/dataformat/xmlrpc/SpringXmlRpcDataFormatTest.xml}

[[XmlRpc-InvokeXmlRpcServicefromClient]]
Invoke XmlRpc Service from Client
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To invoke the XmlRpc service, you need to specify the methodName on the
message header and put the parameters into the message body like below
code, then you can get the result message as you want. If the fault
message is return, you should get an exception which cause if
XmlRpcException.

String response = template.requestBodyAndHeader(xmlRpcServiceAddress,
new Object[]\{"me"}, XmlRpcConstants.METHOD_NAME, "hello",
String.class);

[[XmlRpc-HowtoconfiguretheXmlRpcClientwithJavacode]]
How to configure the XmlRpcClient with Java code
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

camel-xmlrpc provides a pluggable strategy for configuring the
XmlRpcClient used by the component, user just to implement the
*XmlRpcClientConfigurer* interface and can configure the XmlRpcClient as
he wants. The clientConfigure instance reference can be set through the
uri option clientConfigure.

\{snippet:id=e1|lang=java|url=camel/trunk/components/camel-xmlrpc/src/test/java/org/apache/camel/component/xmlrpc/MyClientConfigurer.java}
