[[ConfluenceContent]]
[[ZeroMQ-CamelZeroMQComponent]]
Camel ZeroMQ Component
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*Available as of Camel 2.11*

The *camel-zeromq* component is provided by the
http://code.google.com/p/camel-extra/[Camel Extra] project which hosts
*GPL related components for Camel.

The *camel-zeromq* component allows you to consumer or produce messages
using http://zeromq.org/[ZeroMQ]. Zeromq requires a bit of work to get
setup, especially on windows. Refer to
http://www.zeromq.org/intro:get-the-software[the documentation]. Note:
This component works with the stable 2.2 branch and not the pre-release
3.2.

This component uses Akka for it's Zeromq "driver" but does not use Scala
Actors. This means the component does not require the JZMQ libraries to
be built and present, just the native ZeroMQ library that is installed
when you build ZeroMQ on your system. There is some discussion as to the
speed of the Akka driver, and so it is possible to switch to using the
JZMQ driver if you wish. Simply remove the Akka Zeromq dependancy and
replace it with the JZMQ jar and ensure the zmq.lib is present on your
system. For more information see
http://www.zeromq.org/bindings:java[here].

Maven users will need to add the following dependency to their `pom.xml`
for this component:

[source,brush:,java;,gutter:,false;,theme:,Default]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache-extras.camel-extra</groupId>
    <artifactId>camel-zeromq</artifactId>
    <version>x.x.x</version>
    <!-- use the same version as your Camel core version -->
</dependency>
----

[[ZeroMQ-URIformat]]
URI format
^^^^^^^^^^

[source,brush:,java;,gutter:,false;,theme:,Default]
----
zeromq:(tcp|ipc)://hostname:port[?options]
----

Where *hostname* is the hostname or ip where the server will run.

[[ZeroMQ-Options]]
Options
^^^^^^^

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Property |Default |Description
|`socketType` |`none` |Choose from PULL, SUBSCRIBE for consumers, or
PUSH, PUBLISH for producers

|`asyncConsumer` |`true` |Sets the consumer to be async.

|`topics` |`null` |Applicable for subscribers and publishers only.
Determines which topics to subscribe or publish to. If not specified
then the subscriber will subscribe to all messages. If not specified by
a publisher then no topic will be prefixed to the message. Specify
multiple topics by a comma separated list

|`messageIdEnabled` |`false` |If enabled then camel-zeromq will add a
unique UUID to each message as it is received

|`messageConvertor` |`DefaultMessageConvertor` |The message convertor
that is used to turn an exchange into a byte array for dispatch through
zeromq. See later section.

|`highWaterMark` |`-1` |By default, zeromq will keep messages in an
in-memory buffer while waiting for clients to receive. The high water
mark is the max number of messages to hold before throwing an exception.
-1 sets to the zeromq default, 0 disables, and any positive value sets
to that value.

|`linger` |`-1` |By default, zeromq will wait for sending messages to be
received before shutting down. Linger is the number of seconds to wait
before force closing the socket. -1 sets to the zeromq default, 0
disables, and any positive value sets to that value.
|=======================================================================

[[ZeroMQ-Headers]]
Headers
^^^^^^^

The follwing headers are set on exchanges during message transport.

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Header Name |Endpoint Type |Description
|ZeroMQMessageId |Consumer |A type 4 UUID that is added to received
messages

|ZeroMQTimestamp |Both |The timestamp when the message was received

|ZeroMQSource |Both |The socket address where the message was received
from or pushed to

|ZeroMQSocketType |Both |The type of zeromq that the message was
received from or pushed to
|=======================================================================

[[ZeroMQ-MessageConversion]]
Message Conversion
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

ZeroMQ sends its messages as a byte stream and so incoming messages have
the body set as a byte[] array. When sending to a producer, the
messageConvertor is invoked, and passed the Exchange. The
DefaultMessageConvertor will return the body as is, if it is a byte
array, otherwise it will call toString().getBytes(). You can provide
custom conversion strategies by specifying a class to the
messageConvertor option on the endpoint.

[[ZeroMQ-Samples]]
Samples
^^^^^^^

To receive all messages from a publisher, and then print those to a
logger:

[source,brush:,java;,gutter:,false;,theme:,Default]
----
from("zeromq:tcp://127.0.0.1:5555").process(someLoggingProcessor);
----

To broadcast a message every second on three topics:

[source,brush:,java;,gutter:,false;,theme:,Default]
----
        from("timer://foo?fixedRate=true&period=10").process(new Processor() {
        
        List<String> asList = Arrays.asList("coldplay", "keane", "jethro tull", "jack bruce", "elton john", "kate bush");

            @Override
            public void process(Exchange exchange) throws Exception {
                Collections.shuffle(asList);
                exchange.getIn().setBody(asList.get(0));
            }
        }).to("zeromq:tcp://127.0.0.1:5556?socketType=PUBLISH&topics=bands,musicians,singers");
----
